The Project Gutenberg EBook of Forbidden Fruit, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Forbidden Fruit
       Luscious and exciting story and More forbidden fruit or
       Master Percy's progress in and beyond the domestic circle

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: April 6, 2009 [EBook #28520]
[Last updated: September 6, 2014]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FORBIDDEN FRUIT ***




Produced by Daniel Fromont










[Transcriber's note: Anonymous, _Forbidden fruit luscious and exciting
story_ and _More forbidden fruit or Master Percy's progress in and beyond
the domestic circle_ (1898)]





A classic Victorian erotic novel



FORBIDDEN FRUIT

LUSCIOUS AND EXCITING STORY

AND

MORE FORBIDDEN FRUIT

OR

MASTER PERCY'S PROGRESS

in and beyond

the Domestic Circle





LONDON

1905



PREFACE My readers of Forbidden Fruit may wish to know the origin of
the work. It was this way, whilst I was staying at an out of the way
village on the Sussex coast, I used to take long solitary walks, and
several times saw a very beautiful girl sitting on a secluded part of
the downs, attentively reading what looked like a manuscript in a black
cover. Naturally I concluded she was some very studious young lady
trying to improve her leisure, as she did not appear anything like the
frivolous novel about what she was so intent upon.

One day, on the same foot-path, I picked up what I believed to be her
manuscript book, and looking curiously at the contents, was surprised
to find it was a tale of the grossest kind, scenes of love and lust
depicted in the most realistic manner, with Prick, Cunt, Fuck and other
things mentioned in the plainest language.

I sat down on the bank to enjoy this unexpected voluptuous treat, when
suddenly I was startled by a breathless exclamation of: "That's my
book! Oh, give it me back, Sir; I must have dropped it as I passed
along here, a short time ago, and ran back to find it."

"Your book, Miss. I was just looking to see if there was any address in
it, when I saw what it was about. Excuse my looking, it was done quite
innocently, and your secret is safe with me."

Realising at once the shame of the thing, she gasped for breath,
flushed crimson, and then turning pale as death, fell fainting at my
feet, before I could catch her in my arms.

Reclining her against the mossy bank upon which I had been sitting, I
rubbed and chafed her hands, squeezing her fingers quite painfully, in
order to bring her to herself, but for several minutes without success,
as there was no chance to obtain either water or brandy in such a place.

Presently she murmured "Fuck me! Shove in into me! I want it all--I
must have it now;" and a succession of bawdy expressions, quite
shocking from the lips of such a young girl, as she could not be more
than seventeen, at most.

It was incredible she could be so depraved, but it seemed a striking
confirmation of what a doctor once told me, viz, that even the most
virtuous girls often use frightfully obscene words, when recovering
from a fainting fit.

Anyhow, I resolved not to take advantage of her, and behave honourably
to her.

As she came round a little she opened her eyes with the question: "Oh!
where am I?" And catching sight of me holding her hands so tightly, all
her shame returned to her in quite an overwhelming sense, and bursting
into tears, she cried so bitterly, it was a long time before I could
reassure her.

Promising to keep the secret of her book, I only asked one thing, and
that was that she would not avoid me, and allow me to see her again.

This of course led to a close friendship between us; I lent her a
variety of voluptuous books, and she let me have the manuscript to copy
for my printer, but would not impart to me how she came by it, saying:
"Some day, perhaps, after I am married, then I will let you Fuck me,
and tell you all; it will not be long, my wedding is fixed to come off
in two months time; I'm a virgin and mean to be so till I have my
husband, but have to thank your forbearance that dreadful day when, you
found my book, and did not take advantage of the situation. I both
respect and love you for it."

She would permit me every familiarity but the one thing. We Frigged,
Sucked, and enjoyed every other pleasure, both abroad, and in my own
rooms, where she would visit me, having perfect liberty, living with an
old nurse of hers; so not a soul in the place knew anything about
either of us.

When we parted it was, "Au Revoir," and some day I may have more to
tell.



THE AUTHOR.



FORBIDDEN FRUIT

How well I remember my early days, almost to babyhood when it was
always the care of my beautiful mother to bath me herself every day;
there was also Mary my nursemaid, but when Mamma had to be away at any
time the supervision of my bath was delegated to her sister. Auntie
Gertie, a pretty girl of sixteen or seventeen.

Till six or seven years of age I slept in a cot in my parents' own
bed-room. Papa was a very dark fine handsome man, Mamma equally so, or
much more beautiful to me, had lovely golden hair and deep blue eyes
full of love for me in every glance.

I can just remember one day when Mary and Auntie Gertie were giving me
my bath, I thought they were looking at my little spout, as I said
saucily: "What are you looking at, Papa has got such a big one."

Amongst the tricks I used to play on my nurse was one of suddenly
running up to her and raising her skirts in fun, so one day when Mamma
was bathing me, I suddenly said, "Mamma dear, Mary has such a lot of
hair at the bottom of her belly;" making the poor girl blush crimson,
as she explained my tricks to Mamma.

Another time to Auntie Gertie: "You should see my Papa hug my Mamma
like a bear in bed."

After this my cot was removed to the nursery, as Master Percy was
getting too observant.

What romps I used to have with Mary; then when I was about eight or
nine years old, I often would insist upon sleeping with her, always
creeping inside her night dress, to nestle close to her soft warm flesh.

I would kiss her titties and pretend to be a little sucking pig, as I
played with her belly even as low down as the hairy part, which she
always resisted my handling by keeping her own hand over it.

Often her motions were very curious; I fancied she was rubbing herself
between her thighs, and she would finish with deep sighs and what
seemed to me a tremulous shudder; generally she would also kiss me
ardently.

Time passed on and I was growing quite a big boy. Somehow Mary and
myself seemed instinctively to avoid ever mentioning our bed-fellow
games; as far as I was concerned, there seemed something too good to be
told, even to Mamma.

I must have been nearly twelve when Mary had to go home for a few days,
to nurse her mother, so Auntie Gertie took her place in the nursery.

She saw me to bed about eight o'clock, and then went away, leaving me
awake, wondering if she would let me get into her bed. Bye and bye I
heard her enter the room, so pretending to be asleep, closed my eyes as
she came to look at me, with the lamp in her hand. "What a beautiful
boy, if only I dared!" I heard her say softly to herself. Then placing
the lamp on a table, she came again to the bedside, and imprinted a
warm kiss on my cheek, then another and another. Opening my eyes in
apparent surprise, I threw my arms round her neck and gave her back
kiss for kiss; this went on for quite a minute or two, till she said,
laughing and blushing at the same time: "What a silly, spoony boy you
are, Percy; I thought you were asleep."

"Oh, no, Auntie Gertie, dear, I do love you so, and when you kissed me
I could not help paying you back; don't you love me a little?"

"Now go to sleep, there's a good boy, I must go to bed myself, put your
head under the clothes, if I catch you peeping at me, I'll whip your
bottom, that's all;" drawing the sheets up over my face. "Now keep like
that, till the light is out."

If I could not see, my ears listened till I heard the well known ripple
of her water in the chamber pot and out of shame impudence whistled,
the same as I had heard the groom do to Papa's horse when he wanted it
to piss. Sudden darkness.

The sound of that rushing stream electrified me; sensations I had never
experienced before coursed through my veins, my little pego hardened of
it's own accord, so jumping out of bed, I exclaimed: "Auntie, I must
give you a last kiss, how funny the noise of your pee-pee has made me
feel, I am all of a tremble, just feel me," winding my arms again round
her neck; she seemed only too willing to return my eager kisses,
drawing me to her bosom till I could feel the firm palpitating orbs
pressing against my breast.

"Come into bed, and cuddle me, Percy, I feel so chilly to night," she
whispered.

Only too pleased I nestled myself by her side, still kissing and
calling her my loving Auntie.

Fate had ordained I was to lose my maidenhead that night, young as I
was. Her hand passed all over me, caressing every part, and she freely
abandoned her bosoms to my impassioned kisses.

Presently her hand wandered down to where my stiff standing pintle was
throbbing against her belly, her hand closed upon my staff, which felt
to me bigger and bigger every moment, and must even then have been a
good six inches.

Not a word passed between us; she glued her lips to mine, almost
sucking my breath away and altogether seemed in such an agitated state,
that I was nearly frightened; still I felt only too pleased, as she
held my affair in her hand and slowly passed her fingers up and down,
up and down, drawing back the foreskin each time. Somehow she gradually
worked me into a position between her legs as we lay side by side, then
she commenced rubbing the nose of my machine in a moist sort of chink
embowered in the silky hair at the bottom of her stomach. One of her
arms hugged me round the waist, and presently a soft whisper murmured:
"Percy, push yourself close to me, it's so nice, my darling."

I followed instructions, and hand directing my instrument, it slipped
in somewhere very moist and deliciously warm. She wriggled her bottom
and drew me in more and more at each motion; both her hands now pushed
my bottom each time in response to her forward shoves.

The game grew faster and faster; she rolled over on her back, her legs
entwined over my buttocks, so as not lose the little prisoner she had
got in her grot.

"Now Percy, my love, shove in hard and fast, dear, make me come, isn't
it delicious, my boy?" "Oh, Auntie, you dear Auntie Gertie: where am I
going to?" I ejaculated in a delirium of entrancing sensations--"Ah oh!
oh!--what's going to happen, I'm bursting!" and my head fell on her
shoulder as I lay nearly lifeless, all the extatic emotions of the
impulsive gushes throbbing from me, as her grot seemed to grip and suck
every drop of my life, so as to mingle the very essence of our being in
the recesses of what I now know was her womb.

What a grip she kept on me! Something inside of her caressed the head
of my instrument, and the contractions of that moist warm chink seemed
to increase every moment. The folds of her adorable vagina worked up
and down on my delighted pintle in a truly marvellous manner, and for
the rest of my life I have never had experience of a woman so gifted as
she was in that way. I was quite painfully stiff, she excited me so,
and almost before I had realised all that had happened to me, the flood
came again, and this time I could feel she was also gushing out love
juice in response to mine; a kind of rage possessed me, I wanted to
kill her by thrusting my instrument as savagely as possible, but the
more I did so, the more vehement her motions became. She heaved up her
bottom in desperate plunges to meet every thrust, and but for clinging
very tightly round each others' waists she must have thrown me off.

Our mingled fluids spurted all over my bag of balls and flooded our
thighs at every push.

At length we lay exhausted, but I was still on the top of her, and her
vagina seemed as anxious to retain its working partner as before, but
nature denied me the strength to go on.

"Oh, Auntie, you've killed me, it's gone dead now," as I felt it all
limp and slipping away from her.

"Percy, dear, darling boy, we must go to sleep now, perhaps in the
morning you will be all right again for another game. Only to think,
I've taken your maidenhead, and what pleasure you have given me! Your
father could not do it better."

"Has he ever put that big one of his into you there, Auntie? It must
have hurt you awfully?"

"Don't call me Auntie, call me Gertie; say you love me, Percy, but
never tell what we have done to-night; your Mamma doesn't mind Papa
poking me, if she sees it done; we are sisters you know, and they say
it is all in the family; but Mamma would be mad if she knew I had you
first, so never say a word, and she won't know; but I can tell you a
secret, Percy--she means to have you herself when she thinks you are
old enough; but she doesn't know what a boy you are, my pet; so let me
have you to myself for a little; if you do too much it will kill you;
Mamma and I almost kill Papa sometimes, we want such a lot of poking,
but some nice wine soon gives him strength again. He took my maidenhead
to please your Mamma, who thought she would like to see it done. Ah,
that did hurt: his great big engine bursting into me and stretching
poor Fanny till she was all torn and bleeding. Boys are not hurt like
that, it is only the poor girls who suffer when they lose their
maidenhead. Take my advice, Percy, never let a girl or woman know you
have ever been intimate with another; it is unkind to them, makes them
jealous to think they are not the first; besides, dear boy, you don't
know how delightful it was to me to think I was the first you ever put
into; and only a boy, but what a boy my darling Percy is!" kissing me
with all the abandon of her nature. We went to sleep, but our exertions
so overcame us that we were late for breakfast and had not time for a
game.

"Wait till night; we shall be all the better for the delay;" she said,
as we hurriedly dressed ourselves.

All that day my eyes were for my mother, and when she kissed me my
heart went out to her in a manner it had never done before; the loving
grace in those deep blue eyes seemed to have a new meaning for me, and
her hair looked more golden than ever; was she ornamented with golden
hair also at the bottom of her belly? I determined to ask Gertie about
that. Auntie was three years younger than Mamma and rather slimmer in
figure, but not anything so grand and adorable in my eyes; a feverish
excitement pervaded my whole being, and frequently during that first
eventful day when I already felt myself a man, thinking myself as good
as Papa. My pego seemed to grow in importance, and raised its head,
times out of number, as the thoughts of the possibility that some day I
could be as free with Mamma as I now was with Auntie.

Dear Gertie could not help seeing how fascinated I was with Mamma, and
once even cautioned me to watch myself or all would be found out and I
should be sent to a boarding school. She herself was very careful of
me, and on the sly gave me a second glass of wine at luncheon, besides
helping me to the most recuperative viands on the table.

It was the same at dinner, and when at last she put me to bed at the
usual time, I felt so rampageous, I made her look at my enormously
distended affair.

"How rude you are Percy to night. How dare you, Sir, show that thing to
me? Now, do your pee-pee at once and get into bed, or I shall whip you
till your bottom is sore.

"Here is the chamber utensil. Let me see you do it properly, or
goodness knows, you will wet the bed like a baby; you are so distrait."

Her laughing face and the idea of a lady holding the utensil for me,
took away all power to micturate; I couldn't do it for the life of me.

"Now, go on you bad boy, don't keep me waiting all night," she said
severely.

"Go away and leave off teasing me. You know I can't pee if you look at
me."

She put down the pot, and almost before I even guessed what she was at,
turned me over on the bed face downwards, and began smacking my bottom
with all her strength.

Oh, how those spanks smarted, as she rained them on my devoted rump.

"This is for your naughtiness, Sir; will you obey me or not--Percy--is
that rude thing always going to stick up and defy me like that?"

Slap--Slap--Slap--making me wince at every smack--"Oh--ah-r-re, don't
Gertie, don't that is not fun to me, you hurt me so."

"Yes, and I hope I do hurt you, you bad boy--will you--will you do as I
tell you, or not--Why I declare it's as still as impudent as ever," she
said, thrusting her hand beneath me to feel how I was--"there, I must
serve you out!"

"Ah-r-r-re, oh, you're biting me, Gertie--oh, pray don't--pray don't
bite my bottom like that, or I shall scream."

"I feel I must bite you, Percy I can't make it be good, and there's
only one way to make your instrument lay down, but you must wait till I
come to bed, then I will see to it, as I did last night."

This little game, and the want of sufficient rest on the previous
night, made me very sleepy, and when she was gone I dropped off into a
beautiful slumber, and was only awakened by her kissing me. Opening my
eyes, there she stood by my bedside as naked as she was born, exposing
all the beauties of her figure to my enraptured gaze, but what
attracted me was not the sight of the ivory globes of her swelling
breast, but lower down, where the mount of Venus was shaded by a
profusion of curly reddish golden hair, just beneath which I knew was
concealed the warm cleft which had afforded me such infinite joy the
previous night.

"Oh, Gertie let me kiss you all over, what a love you look, just like
the picture of Eve in your big bible, only she has not got any hair
there. Do tell me has my Mamma got the same colored hair as you, and is
she like you all over?"

"Of course she has, Percy, why do you think so much of Mamma, when you
have me?" she said, with quite a jealous little tone.

"What you told me about her wanting me, my own mother has made me feel
so alloverish all day, your plaything has been sticking up so often,
and when Mamma kissed me, I wanted her so, and you noticed it. Now I
will strip too, and when you take it in that lovely place between your
thighs, let me fancy it is Mamma; and I shall love you, oh, so much."

"Very well, have your own way, you funny boy; so, I'm to be nobody, and
Mamma everything; never mind I shall have the pleasure," as she
playfully pulled my night shirt over my head, and not being unfastened
at the neck, she had me prisoner, my head and arms being confined as
she pulled me off the bed.

"Now, I've got you, my boy, you can't help yourself; I'm Mamma, am I?"
and in a trifle she was whipping me with something which cut and stung
me dreadfully, this I afterwards found was a long thin bunch of green
birch twigs she had slyly got ready for me.

I did not resist much, for every thing she did seemed only to tend to
the most delightful pleasure, but I wanted to look at and enjoy the
sight of her charms, which was exactly what she did not intend just at
the moment; she wanted to torture me and enjoy the idea of my pain and
humiliation, and not to let me see the exultation shown in her face and
eyes.

Her cuts made me plunge about in order to disentangle myself from the
embarrassing night robe, but it took me several minutes to effect my
escape, my tender buttocks suffering every moment more and more under
her strokes. At length I was free, and catching her round the waist
almost lifted her on to the bed, and as she was pushed back with her
legs hanging over the side, and her feet still resting on the floor, I
slipped down on my knees, to explore that divine spot:--"Now, Gertie, I
mean to look and know all about where I was last night."

She suddenly became passive and permitted me to do as I pleased, so my
explorations of the regions of love were easy.

Gently parting the abundance of reddish golden hair, I found the
slightly gaping lips of her vagina bedewed with pearly drops of creamy
love juice, which she must have emitted in the excitement of whipping
me.

"Ah, cheat," I exclaimed. "You have given me the pain, and had the
pleasure to yourself."

"Kiss me there, Percy dear, and forgive me; it was all love, as you
will soon understand, I whipped you both for my own pleasure and also
to make you still more ardent and fierce when shove into me."

I was an apt pupil, so parting those vermilion lips, found a little
fleshly button just above the entrance I could see lower down; my
fingers touched it. "There--there--that's the spot. Kiss it, you dear
boy--just a little, and then make haste to push into me."

Curious to know the effect, I at once complied by sucking that little
button between my lips, and also working the tip of my tongue softly
over it, gently biting with my teeth now and then.

"Put your fingers into me, dear," she said, in a low voice, "and I
shall soon come--Go on--go on--you darling love;" and just then my hand
was inundated with a copious flow of her creamy essence, which so
excited me, I could not wait any longer; I was ready to burst myself,
so jumping up, I took one leg under each arm and rammed into her with
all the strength I was capable of; my God, how she heaved to meet my
attack! Her vagina seemed as stiff as my pintle, closing upon it with
an extraordinary grasp, such as few women are capable of, nipping and
squeezing the head of my affair each time it reached to the bottom of
her womb.

We spent ourselves in a mutually copious ejaculation, and she kept
heaving and wriggling, still insatiable for more, keeping me as stiff
as exer, making me, boy as I was then, overflow three times before she
finished me, whilst as to herself it was one continuous emission as
long as I could go on pushing into her. At length we lay on the bed
palpitating and breathless.

Presently she took my face between her two hands and drawing in to her
lips, kissed me in the most impassioned manner.--"Percy, what a
champion you are, if your Mamma did but know it; but don't be in a
hurry to desert me; you will have enough of her when the time comes and
even then, I don't believe she can; Papa says I'm a long way the best
of the two. Now. I've smuggled a bottle of the finest Madeira up
stairs, and will give my boy a couple of glasses; then we will have a
new sort of, game, which you will be sure to like, and after that to
sleep; we must not do too much."

I think that wine was the most invigorating I ever tasted. Unused as I
was to more than a singe glass of claret at luncheon or dinner, the
generous Madeira fired all the blood in my system, making me palpitate
with desire to renew those love games which I had so recently learned,
and still wished to know more about.

"Gertie, how kind of you to think of that. It makes me feel more of a
man than ever. How stiff it is, but do give me another glass just to
drink the health of your--what do you call it--you know under the hair
there."

"Oh Percy, you'll be inebriated, my dear. Only this once, and if
affects you much, I shall refuse a third glass another time," she said,
refilling my glass.

"Now, what do you call it, Gertie? Tell me it's proper name."

"Mine," she said, slapping her hand on her lovely mount--is a C-U-N-T
(Cunt) but when girls talk together about it they call their
"Fanny"--but I like the word Cunt--always call it that, Percy, when
alone with me--and, your's, dear, what do boys their affairs?"

"You know I have never been to school and have been so much at home
with Mamma, you, and Mary, that I hardly know the right name for my
thing; but what does Papa call his?"

"Papa calls it his Prick--Mamma calls it a glorious Cock--and I, I use
either name. Here Percy, we will drink to Cock and Cunt, and may they
never get tired of love; a stiff Standing Prick, and a Cunt ready for
it." We emptied our glasses and she placed them on the table, then
getting on the bed, stretched herself by my side, and kissed me
ardently, darting her velvety tongue between my lips, till I could
endure it no longer, and wanted to mount up as before.

"No, not that way this time, we will try a new pleasure; I want to
taste and swallow the very essence of your being."

Reversing herself upside down by my side, and taking my stiff machine
in her mouth, began to suck and roll her tongue round its head, in the
most delicious manner. At the same time she pressed her mount against
my face, as a challenge for me to reciprocate her attentions to my
prick. Words were not required. I knew instinctively what I ought to
do, so my fingers parted the lips of her luscious Cunt, and my tongue
was at once busy about La Rose d'Amour, the little spot where the
slightest titillations of a tongue will arouse even in the coldest
temperament the most ardent sensations of desire, and at once dispel
any ideas of resistance to the due course of pleasure.

It is the real touch-hole, which once fired, lets off all the pent up
sources of voluptuousness; let the chilly virgin be but once assaulted
there by finger or tongue, and she is lost; Shame--Prudence--every
thought, save of utter abandonment--all vanish as the conquering hero
pursues his advantage;--and it is the same with a boy who for the first
time finds pintle between the lips of an ardent girl who is all-a-fire
to enjoy his youthful virility.

Each one abandons every charm to the other; desire to do courses hotly
through their veins, each seems anxious to devour the other; so it was
with us, she flooded my mouth at the same instant as I felt my very
life melting away and spurting down her eager throat.

Not a drop of the creamy emission escaped me; I was sucking her life,
her soul, and wanted more each moment. This game lasted a considerable
time. After each spend, our lips still kept possession of the organ of
love, sucking and playing our tongues in the most lascivious way we
could imagine to prolong and bring on the exotic spasms again and again.

Exhausted at length, we settled ourselves to sleep, with a mutual kiss
and thanks for the delicious pleasures afforded.

Beautiful dreams haunted my sleeping hours and still more inflamed my
now thoroughly awakened manhood. Recently I had read the mythological
tale of the three goddesses, Juno, Venus and Minerva appealing to the
shepherd Paris for the prize of the golden apple; as drapery was very
rare in those Pagan days, no doubt they stood before him in all the
glories of their matchless beauty.

Visions of my glorious golden haired Mamma, Auntie Gertie, and Mary,
standing before me, as if I had to chose which was most desirable; the
last named a swarthy beauty of twenty, with small figure, but a model
of gracefulness, seemed indeed to challenge comparison with my two
lovely relatives, and much as I longed to possess Mamma, this vision of
Mary made a very lasting impression on my mind; beyond them stretching
away in the dim perspective were quite a procession of attendant
houris, all sizes, ages, and styles of complexion and beauty from very
little ones to the fat, fair, and forty. Was this prophetic of my
future career amongst the fair sex, viz, beginning at home with the
first principal figures, and then to revel in a succession of
loveliness for a long time to come; as I opened my eyes, that was the
thought which came to me, and I resolved to have sweet swarthy Mary as
soon as she returned to her duties; it should be "Nolens Votens;" I was
strong enough to make her let me have my way.

My instrument, inflamed by both dream and resolves, stood rampant, and
attracted Gertie's attention as she opened her eyes:

"My Goodness, Percy, what an erection!--I have just been dreaming of
you pushing into your Mamma on the sofa, whilst I sat astraddle of Papa
on his Cock, and rode up and down, as you pleased your mother; how I
should have liked it to be real; perhaps it will some day--put your
hand down and feel how wet I am, it made me come in a flood--and now
you are almost as bad--have you been dreaming too?"

I confessed as much with respect to her and Mamma, but kept Mary to
myself for fear Auntie might spoil my anticipated pleasure in that
quarter.

"It's getting late, my boy, so let me have it quick, just the same as I
was dreaming I was on your Papa--riding on your dear Cock."

I was already on my back, as she placed herself across me kneeling on
her knees, and so taking Mr. Pego in one hand, she directed his head to
the well lubricated slit so ready to take him in, gently impaling
herself as her body gradually pressed down on my inflamed Prick. The
long slow insertion into that furnace of love was delicious, and as she
felt the head at last reach the very entrance to her longing womb, her
sperm came in a flood. Mine also had been so put up that the spasmodic
contractions of the folds of the innermost parts of her vagina at the
moments of emission drew an equally copious ejaculation from me.

"My God, Percy, that will make a baby, I must syringe at once!" she
said, as soon as she recovered herself and finished kissing me. "What
exquisite pleasure! We ought to go on, but I must not run the risk;"
and springing off me, in spite of my efforts to detain her in my arms,
she proceeded to syringe herself most effectually with an enema, using
a very slight solution of sulfate of zinc, which will always prevent
impregnation if done quickly after coition. As she explained to me, the
critical moment such as we had just experienced only happened now and
then, but that the female had such a very peculiar sensation, she could
not possibly mistake it, and only a careless girl, or one who really
wished for a child, would neglect to syringe the moment it was all over.

Gertie had me to herself for some days, before Mary returned, but my
vision had never lost its effects on my mind.

Auntie was very reluctant to give up her charge, but there was no
available excuse. She admonished me to be very circumspect and we would
enjoy ourselves every possible chance. "Some night," she whispered,
"you can steal into my room when Mary is asleep, but don't let her know
anything, or you will be sent away, my love."

The short time that Mary had been away, seemed to have worked quite a
change in her manner towards me, she seemed to have grown suddenly shy
and reserved, and the first night even neglected to give me the usual
conventional kiss, and when she retired herself, was very careful to
put out the light before doing certain little things.

"All right, my beauty," I thought to myself. One good night's rest,
then for an explanation or else something better.

She was restless, and as I lay awake, thinking over all my game with
Auntie Gertie, Mary was tossing about and unsettled. I could hardly
restrain myself from jumping up and getting into her bed.

At length her heavy breathing told me she slept, but evidently
dreaming, as I could hear little words now and then, such as: "Don't
Georges--you shan't--indeed you shan't--I'll slap your face if you go
on so."

Sleep overcame me at last, and when I opened my eyes in the morning she
had left the room. All day my eyes feasted on Mamma and I could see
Gertie pouting with vexation at my evident desire for the maternal
connexion. This served my purpose exactly, as it took away all
suspicion of my design upon Mary.

"Don't look at Mamma like that, Percy, or I shall begin to dislike you,
my boy, and shan't let you love me again," she whispered, when she got
me alone.

"Oh, there's no harm in looking. Gertie, you know you told me she meant
to have me, when I am old enough, and I'll let her know that some day
before very long."

"You tease. I'll whip your bottom, when I get you alone, you bad boy;
you only want to make me jealous."

"Then don't be so silly Gertie. Looking at Mamma does no harm yet, but
I do so want to kiss her Cunt."

"Fie, for shame, sir! Be off and behave yourself."

That day seemed a very long one to me, but bed time came as last. Mary
was retiring as on the previous evening, but I waited till she had put
out the light, and got into bed.

"Mary," I said, "why don't you kiss me since you come back?"

"Oh! Master Percy, you are such a big boy now, we ought to leave off
that," was the reply.

"But what is the harm; we always did, and used to have such nice games
together; shall I come and kiss you just now?"

"No, no, I won't allow it any more, besides--besides."

"Besides, what?" I said, getting out, and going to her bedside:
"Besides, I mean to kiss you and will make you kiss me."

"Go away! Percy, you shan't!" as she covered her head with the
bed-clothes.

"That's better than Master Percy; now, I will kiss you, Mary dear, so
don't make a fuss, but kiss me back."

"Well, just once, then go back to bed," she said, raising her head.

"There's a dear girl," I replied kissing her on the lips; "Kiss me back
or I'll pull the clothes off and slap you."

Her lips returned my osculation and I tried to slip the tip of my
tongue into her mouth as I prevented her taking her face away, and
sucked in her very breath till she seemed to quiver all over, and her
lip relaxed a little till the tips of our tongues fairly met.

This dalliance continued for some minutes till one of my hands found
its way inside her night chemise, and grabbed the heaving globes of her
bosom, moulding them and playing with the saucy nipples which stuck up
as firm as my Cock, which was in a fiery state of expectation.

"Now, go away do, you impudent boy, where have you learnt such tricks,
Percy?" she whispered as she faintly attempted to push me away.

"Nowhere, only I do so like to feel and kiss you, Mary, you are so warm
and soft, and kiss so nicely my dear;" as I was gently sliding into the
bed beside her.

"What makes you like kissing so? Don't Mamma or auntie Gertie kiss you
enough, you silly boy."

"Oh, but that's different, I can't feel them all over, as I do you; as
I hugged my body close to hers, those palpitating bosoms now beating
against my breast."

"How queer you make me feel, Mary. Don't you notice my affair stiff and
hard against you belly; let us lay close to each other, and your warm
flesh against mine," pulling up her chemise to her waist.

"How is it you have hair there, dear, and I have none about mine!" My
hand was groping to get a finger in her slit, and if possible to touch
the spot I knew so well.

"No, Percy, you mustn't put your hand there, that thing of yours is
hard against my belly. Put it away do."

"Between your legs, Mary, I seem to feel sure that is the place; let me
lay between your legs and rub my belly against yours; how hot you are
there!" Both my hands were trying to force open her thighs, which she
kept firmly closed.

"You shan't--you shan't, you bad boy, what do you mean by such goings
on, Percy?"

A sudden frenzy impelled me to exert all my strength; little by little,
I got one leg between hers, as I pushed her over on her back.--"I
will," I said, grinding my teeth in desperation; "You shall let me,
Mary; now, don't fight so, it's no use."

We struggled on in silence, she was almost a strong as myself, but
panting for breath she was gradually mastered by my dogged resolve to
win my way:--"Oh, oh, you shan't, indeed you shan't;" as I got a finger
fairly in her slit, which was quite moist and slimy, as no doubt the
ardour of our struggles had brought on an emission.

The head of my Cock at last got lodged just inside the moist lips of
her vulva; she gave a tremulous shudder, and I thought the victory was
won, but with quite sudden desperation, she rolled herself almost on
her side, but I clasped one arm firmly round her waist, and the other
hand gave her buttocks such a savage pinch, that with a sharp "Oh! oh!"
her bottom heaved up a little, and I felt my champion gain a little way
in; again she struggled desperately, and actually bit my shoulder, but
that only made me more savage.

Slowly I pushed up to her last virgin defence. "You shan't, Oh Percy,
you'll ruin me, do get away; you'll kill me.--Oh--Ah-r-r-re!" as
struggling and wriggling to resist me, her motions actually helped to
accomplish the rape, for thrusting fiercely just as she heaved a little
to throw me off, the hymen was broken, and my Cock triumphed over that
stubbornly contested virginity.

So ignorant was I of the ethics of copulation that I had no idea of the
irreparable damage I had done to poor Mary.

"There, I told you I would, you couldn't prevent me getting into you,
my dear, and how lovely it feels now I am there; my Cock is inside you,
and your Cunt holds, it so delightfully tight". I kissed her again and
again, and began to move by instrument inside her, but she only
responded by heartbroken sobs, and her face was wet with tears.

"What is the matter dear, don't you like it; what a struggle we had,
but that only added to the fun of the thing; have I indeed hurt you so
much? Cheer up and join in the game now."

"Ah, Percy," she sobbed, "you have robbed me of the only jewel I
possessed; I can never get married now, any one could know some one had
broken through my hymen;" and she sobbed bitterly, so much so, that I
was really distressed, and ashamed of my violence.

"Oh! what have I done? Do tell me Mary, don't cry so, dry up your
tears, you know I love you."

"And so I do you Percy, my own boy; and, oh, I was so afraid it would
happen some day. Now, kiss me and tell me truly, who taught you to be
so rude; you must have had a lesson from your Auntie Gertie whilst I
was away. I know what she is, so hot, so lustful; she wants every man
and boy she can get; I know your Papa pokes her, and so does your
cousin Mr. Shore, and even when she goes out for a ride with our groom
Parsons, or a walk by herself, she takes a small syringe and a bottle
of lotion in her pocket, in case of accident, but I know what sort of
accident she means. Now, tell me, and I'll keep your secret: but never
let her suspect I know, or I should lose my place. Now, Percy, I'm sure
she taught you. Tell me truly, dear."

Certain that I could not hide the truth from the dear girl, I confessed
as to my aunt, but nothing more. "Mary dear," I said, "we will keep our
secret to ourselves, she will never suspect you."

"Oh, you little love, you shall be all mine; that cat, beautiful as she
is, shan't have you," she said, squeezing me in her arms, and kissing
me rapturously.--"All mine, and I feel it throbbing inside of me,
Percy, push again now, gently at first, as I feel rather sore, perhaps
it will soon get easier. Ah, that's it, how nice, draw out nearly, and
then in again softly, dear; that's it, how, lovely! Oh! what is that
shooting into me, like a spurt of hot balm, right up to my heart?--Oh!
Oh! I'm coming too!" she sobbed in ecstasy--"what divine pleasure--how
you pushed at that moment--go on, dear, don't stop, it's too ravishing
to waste a moment!" as she instinctively entwined her legs over me, and
wriggled her bottom in excess of pleasure, as our love juices mingled
in her womb; then at last she stretched herself out at length, her Cunt
closely nipping Cupid's battering ram, her arms tightly holding me
almost like a vice, her lips played with mine in long kisses, our
tongues darting into each other's mouths in the most luscious manner,
all the while the inner folds of her tight fitting sheath kept me
prisoner, and treated my Cock to the most delicious contractions and
pressures, till I was so inflamed, Cupid's charger plunged on his mad
career once more, making my dark beauty writhe and squirm in the excess
of her ecstatic emotion; several times we seemed to stop by mutual
consent, and lay for a while enjoying those heavenly sensations. After
thus delaying the final crisis to the uttermost, the moment came when
the life flood could no longer be kept back, and our simultaneous
emission drowned the organs of love so profusely that our thighs were
deluged as we continued to churn in the creamy overflow.

This finished our game for the night, and when my eyes opened in the
morning she lay naked by my side, having thrown off her blood-stained
chemise. She was awake. "Ah! Percy, my love, I thought you would never
wake, but I did not like to touch you: see what a mess the bed is
in--it was a real rape--you would never have done it if I had been
strong enough--But now, oh, how I love my boy!"

The sight that met my eyes did indeed give evidence of something
awful--blood stains--patches of dried semen, discoloured by blood.

"My God, Mary, what will you do? We shall be found out."

"Kiss you for it, Percy. Don't be afraid, I will change the sheets and
make it right," gluing her lips to mine, as if she would suck my breath
away, whilst one of her hands found out my now standing champion ready
for the fray.

"Let me have it again, dear, before I get up; I want you so much."

"Well then, Mary my love, try Auntie Gertie's plan; kneel across me and
help yourself, whilst I lay on my back and enjoy the sight of your
beautiful body as you ride up and down on my Cock; oh, I do think a
dark girl like you beats all fair beauties."

"What a flatterer to say that, you artful boy--when you know, and have
seen such a beauty as your aunt," as she slowly impaled herself on my
rampant engine. "Did she teach you that way? Well she knows what's good
any how--Ar-r-re--it's up so far, let me sit and feel it like that for
a moment."

With sparkling eyes and a smile on her lips which parted just enough to
show me a row of pearls of the whitest ivory, and so perfect that being
bitten by them could only be a pleasure. Then again the contrast
between this dark olive tinted Venus and the creamy colored complexion
of my aunt with her reddish-golden haired mount and the black silky
down which ornamented the tight fitting sheath, which now was enjoying
possession of my Cock. All these so tired my imagination, that I heaved
up my buttocks to start another heat in love's steeple chase, and the
little dark tilly at once bounded on her course with all the fire of
her nature.

"Ah," she said, slackening the pace, "it is too good to hurry like
that," and she laid herself full length over my body, devouring my
mouth with her hot tonguing kisses, whilst her Cunt kept possession of
my Prick, and treated it to a course of the most exquisite compressions
imaginable, till at length she suddenly resumed the proper position and
riding furiously for a moment or two, fell exhausted on my bosom as
gushes of spend flooded my delighted Cock and invited it to shoot its
essence into her very vitals.

"Ah," she said, as at last she reluctantly dressed herself; "what a man
you will make, and what a lot of girls you will want. Poor me will be
nowhere, but you shall always have me, when you want a bit of my black
Fanny--Black for Beauty--you know; much as you may sometimes run after
the fair ones."

Mary and I indulged in every variety of voluptuous pleasures; we needed
no further instruction, but tried everything we could think of, even to
pissing in each other's mouths, as a finale after a long bout of erotic
excitements.

She had the prettiest of underclothing and one of my delights was to be
dressed up as a girl, in chemise, drawers and corset; then she would
put on my shirt and trousers, and in this kind of demi-toilette we had
many a spree in our bedroom, and she did look a pretty boy. She would
kiss and chuck me under the chin, calling me her pretty Jemima--"Pretty
Jemima, don't say no, what a nice soft Fanny you have, my dear;" as she
would put her hands under my chemise and gently wag Mr. Peaslin, who
was always in a state of erection. Perhaps it was the aroma of her
chemise and drawers which had such a magnetic effect on me, always
bringing on a violent priapism. She would push me back on the edge of
the bed, and opening her trousers, pretend to get into me, and of
course I slipped into her; this was quite a fancy of hers. She would
say: "Jemima darling, how deliciously you squeeze my Prick! Do I please
you, darling? Am I fucking you nicely?"

For in a very short time we got to relish all the expressions so
piquant in bawdy language and which give such a zest to the fullest
enjoyment. When sometimes I would say to her: "I mean to give you a
beautiful Fuck," she would exclaim: "Say that again. I like to hear you
say that;" and as to our masquerading in each other's clothes, she said
it made her feel a double pleasure when my Prick was so tight inside
her, it seemed to be part of herself and it really appeared as if she
was Fucking me, as I lay beneath her, on the edge of the bed;
"imagination is everything, my dear, when you can have your Aunt, or
any girl you fancy, even your own Mother, if you think of her as you
Fuck me."

When she talked like this, "Did she know anything?" I thought to
myself; so one night I said: "Mary dear, do you think Mamma is fond of
Fucking, and does Papa do enough for her? What do you think?"

"I don't believe one single man would satisfy your Mother or your aunt; I
will tell you a great secret of something I once saw, which so upset me
at the time, that I rally think if a nice young man had been there, my
maidenhead would never have been left for you."

The summer before last, you will remember Capt. Devereux your uncle,
and who of course is brother to both your mother and your aunt, stayed
here for a week, before he went to India, where he is now; he tried to
be very familiar with me, but I was too shy and ran away when he tried
to give me a kiss.

You know your mother's boudoir is only separated from this room by the
big closet between, which is used for hanging up dresses, as that is so
much better than having them folded. You know what a roomy place it is,
with a long row of pegs on one side, and the big linen press at the
end; besides the door into the corridor, there is one into the boudoir,
half glass covered with a pink silk blind.

Well, one day I was in there taking out the dresses, to keep them free
of moth when I heard the key turned in the lock of the door into the
corridor, and your mother's voice: "No one can go in there now, and we
can't be disturbed," as the Captain and his two sisters entered the
boudoir. I don't know why I didn't knock to be let out at once, but
when I thought of doing so, I heard the Captain's voice:--I suppose,
Selina, you must be first. I want a Fuck awfully bad; we've got the
whole morning to ourselves, so there is plenty of time for Gert; and my
dear sisters, how we shall miss each other when I can never visit you.
It's an awful bore being sent out to India, but I suppose there will be
game amongst the officers' wives and daughters; our Colonel takes out
all his family and has two or three fizzing girls who will soon ripen
in the Indian sun.

"Oh, Horace," exclaimed your Mother. "I never had such a fucker as you,
and you taught me and Gert all we know in the Art of Love. Come to my
arms, my brother, the more wicked it is to be Fucked by you, the more
piquant is our enjoyment:--Take it out, Gert, and put it into me, I
will do as much for you presently, and lick him up too, if I make him
too limp."

You may be sure I could not resist a peep, and at once thought of
Solomon's proverb about the "Wonderful way of a man with a Maid," and
now was a chance to learn something. So kneeling behind the glass door,
I slipped a little corner of the blind aside and what did I see? Your
own Mother leaning forward over the scroll end of the couch, with her
dress and skirts all turned up over her back; she had on black silk
knickers trimmed with a golden fringe, and light pink silk chemise and
stockings; the Captain was opening her drawers and putting the tail of
the chemise aside, whilst your aunt was busy unbuttoning his trousers
and taking out "Oh, such a big beautiful Prick," quite nine or ten
inches long, which she presented to your Mother's bottom, and I really
thought he was going to push it into the wrong place, but his sister
directed it lower down, and I could just see the lovely fleshy lips of
your Mother's Cunt, as it fairly sucked him in, she pushing out her
bottom in the rudest possible way, to meet his advance.

His shaft was as white as ivory ornamented at its base by reddish brown
hair, and as his hands took a firm grip of her buttocks, drawing them
towards him every time he pushed home, and I could see each movement,
it was a sight to impress a girl like myself, who had never yet
surrendered to a man. Ravishing indeed to watch the amorous play of
your Mother's splendid Cunt, as he worked in and out, withdrawing till
he nearly exposed the inflamed head of his Prick, then plunging in
again to her apparent delight.

The black silk showing off the white skin to perfection, but what
impressed me most as I watched the piston-like action of the Captain's
affair, was to see how the fleshy lips of her Fanny clung to it each
time it withdrew. I could hear quite an audible sucking sound, and
those lips gradually deepened in colour from their original fleshy
tint, till at the apex of excitement they were quite a splendid
vermilion hue; then came the emission, which must have been copious as
it spurted out in thick creamy and frothy jets, as he continued to work
on.

"Horace--Horace--let me have it, balls and all--spunk into me now!"
your Mother almost shrieked in her frenzy.

"Now! Now! Selina, I'm coming--I'm bursting my love--Oh, Gert, work
your fingers well," was his response, whilst your aunt was doing all
she could to increase his ardour by working her fingers in his
bottom-hole.

I was almost frantic myself at such a sight. My hand could not but seek
my own gap, and quite unconsciously rubbed and frigged myself, whilst I
feel sure my eyes must have been starting from their sockets, so
intensely was I fascinated by the incestuous scene enacted before me.
Within a few minutes they ran another course, and came again with cries
of pleasures and bawdy expressions.

The Captain now withdrew, his machine hanging down looked quite
crestfallen and limp, covered with glistening spend which dripped off
on to the floor; your Mother retained her position, as if too tired to
get up, when to my surprise your aunt Gert, proceeded to kiss and suck
her sister's reeking Cunt which was still all of a quiver, those now
vermilion lips twitching as if still anxious for more.

Pushing the thighs as wide apart as possible, your aunt buried her face
between those luxurious buttocks, and seemed eager to secure every drop
of the precious elixir that was slowly oozing out. "Oh, how lovely!"
your mother said, with a sigh of pleasure; "Come to me Horace, let me
revive the drooping courage of your glorious Prick; whose lips but mine
ought to raise it again for dear Gert? What intense felicity you gave
me, my dear?" as he placed himself kneeling on the couch so as to bring
his affair into position for her to take it into her mouth, which she
did with great avidity, her hands gently holding back the foreskin and
caressing his hairy balls, as first giving a good suck in her mouth she
proceeded to titillate the little orifice in its head with the tip of
her velvety tongue. The effect was marvellous to me. The before limp
affair almost jumped into life again by a series of jerks till it stood
even more proudly than ever. How she fondled that resuscitated Cock and
handled his balls till his eyes started with lust, and his bottom
wriggled as if he would soon be brought to the spending point again.

"No, no, I won't make you come Horace. Let Gert have her due, she's a
dear girl, and never jealous of me, are you Gert? So I let her be as
much Fred's wife as I am, and we three have some rare razzle-dazzles, I
can tell you, same as we do with you."

Selina, your Mother, now made Gert lay on her back on the couch, and
inserting her brother's Prick in the beautiful Cunt you know so well,
"There, dears, go on and I will do all I can to add to your pleasure;"
saying which, she pulled Horace's trousers down to his heels, and
turning his shirt tail well up, handled his balls from behind for a few
moments:

"Ah, you Fucker," she exclaimed, "you like Gert better than me, but no
matter--there--there--there--there--go on and Fuck her. Spend into
her!" giving four tremendous slaps with her hand, which made him fairly
wince.

Then as if suddenly remembering something, she opened a long box
ottoman, and took out a bunch of birch twigs, elegantly tied up with
ribbons, with which she proceeded to attack his firm looking fleshy
rump.

"Lay on Selina, don't spare me, drive me well," said the Captain.
"That's just what is wanted."

This excited my imagination to the utmost; how could a whipping add to
his enjoyment. Selina did not keep me waiting long, she touched him up
smartly, giving light stinging strokes, at least I feel certain they
must have been stingers, to judge from the lovely rosy tint she soon
raised on those firm white buttocks of his, which gradually quivered
more and more as he worked rapidly in your aunt's pretty Cunt; I could
see his white shaft almost withdrawn, to be plunged in again with ever
increasing verve. The more Selina whipped and made his bottom smart the
more furiously he Fucked her.

Presently your Mother shifted her position, so as to cut towards the
division of his bottom, and make the tips of the pliant birch even
reach the jewel bag, which was about to shoot its balm of love into her
sister.

Gert was almost mad with lust; she fairly squealed: "Fuck faster, you
dear brother, let me feel it well up at every stroke--Oh, I must come
now, Eeecch?--what a gust--what a man to poke--my love, I'm
spending--oh, Heavens--How delicious!"

After a short rest, laying soaking his tool in that flood of mixed love
juice, he was going to withdraw, but Selina interposed.

"Gee up--Gee up--you haven't half done your duty yet, Sir; hold him
tight, Gert, and I'll soon make him start and keep up to it properly."

Your aunt clasped him tightly in her arms, renewing her kisses on his
lips, darting her tongue into his mouth; then finding he returned her
kisses and did not attempt to get away, one hand stole down to his now
languid Prick, and began to Frig it, keeping the head still within the
lips of her inflamed Cunt, whilst your Mother began to lecture him.

"So, Sir, you don't want to go on Fucking my sister, when you owe her
so much pleasure, but I'll see you don't defraud her of what is fairly
due;--will you move Sir, or, must I scalp your bottom, for you, eh?"

"You're used up and languid, are you? I believe you will go to sleep on
the top of Gert--there--there--move will you!" giving a couple of very
vicious cuts, which left a lot of long fiery marks across his bottom.

"Oh, Selina don't, you hurt so, let me rest a minute or two."

"No, Sir, no; got on this minute. Gert, take that thing out of you, and
show me how it is--what a limp, lazy, done-up looking thing;" as the
Captain, raising himself a little off Gert, gave a chance to your
Mother, who at once smartly switched her birch about the ruddy head of
Mr. Coocks, as your aunt exposed with the foreskin drawn back.

"Ah-r-r-r-re, Oh! I can't stand that Selina; you are cruel."

"Cruel--then put it back into Gert's Cunt, and I will whip your
backside well, till you do Fuck her properly, Sir."

Saying which, she pressed him down on her sister, who put the smarting
head into her nest to soothe it and your Mother keeping her left hand
on the middle of his back, went on whisking the twigs in every
direction across his buttocks, till the red smacks showed all over the
surface, and little drops of blood oozed from the excoriated skim; I
could see he winced under her severity, but his Prick swelled visibly
at every stroke, and Gert heaved up to meet each thrust, as he plunged
on with erotic fury, throwing her pretty stockinged legs over his
loins, giving me a splendid view of her luscious Cunt as the vermilion
lips clung round the white shaft of his tool; there seemed to be such a
lot of sperm mixed up in her vagina that in spite of the sound of the
birching which your Mother kept up regardless, of which bottom had the
benefit of it, I could hear sloppy noise each time his affair plunged
up to the hilt in that well lubricated receptacle, the frothy creamy
looking spend hanging in patches about the hair which embellished their
parts, running over his balls, and trickling in quite a rill between
the parting of her thighs.

At length Selina dropped the rod, and kneeling behind them used both
her hands to tickle his balls and Frig his Prick, holding back the
foreskin in a way that must have been almost painful as she seemed to
drag it backwards, then suddenly letting his Prick go as she felt the
crisis coming, rammed a couple of her well oiled fingers up his
bottom-hole and Frigged him there, exclaiming: "Horace, well done, I
felt the bursting throb. Wasn't it splendid Gert, dear?"

Both Fuckers seemed thoroughly exhausted when their crisis of ecstasy
and endearments ceased, but your Mother kept her fingers going for a
little till thoroughly assured they had spent the last drop and could
no more.

After this she produced a bottle of some liqueur which seemed to have a
revivifying effect upon all three, for the sisters stripped every rag
off their brother and reduced their own clothing till they stood in
nothing but chemise, drawers, stockings and their pretty boots.

"You like to see us like this Horace," said Selina, the two standing
before him. He sat on the couch, lifting their pouting Cunts from the
openings in the black silk drawers, his Prick standing again as if it
had not had the least satisfaction.

"Come on, girls, for a wind up. Selina shall be St. George, as I lay
back on the couch and suck Gert's delicious Cunt."

All were so voluptuously wound up, they got into position at once, the
two beautiful sisters embracing and tongue kissing each other as they
rode, the one on the Prick and the other over the sucking mouth of
their brother. Gert and Selina seemed ready to devour each other with
their lustful kisses, and when apparently they had both come more than
once they changed places upon their recumbent brother; all finished
with a chorus of bawdy words, sighs, and cries expressing the agony of
their delight.

You may be sure I was glad when at last it was all over, and they went
to their rooms to rest awhile before luncheon, which allowed me to
escape from my awkward position in an awful state of amorous excitement
which quite demoralised me, but I never trusted myself to spy on them
again, although I know each day the Captain remained they retired to
your Mother's boudoir. It was indeed a lesson to me in the philosophy
of the sexes.

"But you don't think Mamma is ever likely to take liberties with me, do
you?"

"I don't know so much about that; every one fancies young people, even
myself, dear; I think you are far more delicious to enjoy than any big
man could possibly be; and--and--but I will tell you; my own father
when I was lately at home, tried all he could to seduce me, going as
far as to let me see his big standing affair one Sunday when I entered
the room as he was reading the weekly paper, and I suppose had been
Frigging himself; he had some excuse for that, as Mother was too ill to
let him have what he wanted; but he quite frightened me, as I entered
the room, by suddenly lifting the newspaper from before him, and
letting me see his tremendous thing with its fiery red head; of course
I rushed out of the room, but in an hour or two, when I was laying the
supper table, he took me on his knee and tried to put a hand under my
clothes, at the same time kissing me and shoving his tongue between my
lips. 'Father, Father, for shame, I'll scream if you don't let me go!'
was all I could say, as I struggled to prevent his hand getting between
my thighs, and I suppose he was frightened as he allowed me to get
away. This made me think over things, and be very distant to you when I
came back; so you can guess, if my good old Father wanted me, your
Mamma may be equally taken with you, especially any time Papa is away
and she feels the want of him.

Now Percy, comfort Fanny a bit; you don't know how randy she feels, put
your hand on her, dear, just play with the little button, as we have
one of our delicious tongue kisses."

I did all I could to oblige her, with my fingers, my tremendously
swollen Prick pressing all the while against her mount and frigging
himself by rubbing his nose in the hairy moss of her mount. This could
not last long. She opened her thighs and, drawing me upon her, directed
my eager tool to her burning slit.

I pushed in slowly, enjoying the gradual insertion, till its head was
gently taken in charge by the nippers, which she had in such
perfection; it seemed to me just like a baby hand pressing and
caressing my delighted instrument, and we enjoyed this sort of
dalliance for some minutes; neither spoke, but our lips and tongues
eloquently proved the intensity of our feelings. At length she suddenly
bucked up her bottom, as a challenge to me go on. Thus spurred on, I
slowly drew out to the very head of my Prick, then gently pushing in
again, kept repeating the motion, each time gradually increasing the
pace, till we arrived at the short digs, when clinging closely to her,
my hands pressed up her bottom till we could scarcely move, as the
spurts of our semen mingled in her womb, and I felt her receive it with
the same peculiar and perceptible shudder of delight which warned my
aunt to use her syringe at once.

"Oh, Mary, I've done it for you; that will make a baby the image of
myself."

"Not if I can prevent it, Percy, the very last time I went to the
chemist's I bought an enema and some sulphate of zinc, so you will see
I don't want any babies; if you only knew what an awful thing it is for
an unmarried girl to have one, you would not wish to have it happen to
me."

She jumped up and syringed herself at once, as carefully as my aunt had
done.

It is impossible to relate all our sprees, but I had to please Auntie
now and then, when she got a chance. And so six months rolled away, and
I was growing rapidly; my especial delight was to contemplate the
development of my Prick, which seemed to improve daily, and must have
grown to quite eight inches, being thick in proportion; I believe it
was the thorough and regular irrigation by Mary's spendings which
brought on such perfection. The more it grew, the more my desire for my
Mother increased, which of course I kept to myself, when one day Papa
had to go off almost without notice to America about a property he had
over there. Mamma and Gert both cried a good bit when he started, but I
asked him to bring me home a nice present.--"Some diamonds will do,
Papa," I said kissing him. "What a silly innocent boy you are, Percy;
they are cheaper here and your Mamma and Gert would like a lot first,
when I have money enough; you shall have a necklace of grizzlybear's
claws, and we'll dress you up as a girl; won't it be fun, Selina?
There--there, my boy. I won't forget you;" giving me a last kiss, and
then embracing Gert and Mamma, in long luscious kisses, saying: "Cheer
up, don't cry," as he jumped into the carriage and drove off.

I cheered up immensely, as his absence would be my opportunity, and
that very night, in Mary's arms, I enjoyed my Mamma in imagination.
Several days passed, but one morning early my Auntie Gertie started for
a long day's picnic with some friends, and took Mary to attend upon her.

Mamma took her breakfast in bed, so I went to say good-morning and kiss
her; she was asleep and I had a grand view of her really magnificent
bosom, as being very warm weather, she had on only a low necked
chemise; how long I stood to admire the snowy whiteness of the large
full bosoms as they rose and feel under my ardent gaze at each
respiration, and I was going to awaken her by kissing them, when a
sudden idea pleased me better; going to the drawers where I knew she
kept her under clothing, I selected a pink silk chemise, and was about
to take a pair of black silk drawers, only my eyes lighted upon some
open net-work tights of dark blue silk, a pair of golden garters,
lovely blue silk hose and a pretty pair of Turkish slippers, which
looked just made for my small feet; looking in the wardrobe I spied a
duck of a dressing gown, of almost transparent white muslin, which
would show the figure inside and display the most attractive charms.

Running away to the nursery on the next corridor, I soon put off my own
things, arrayed myself in the feminine attire, and, looking in the
glass opened the dressing gown and lifted up my chemise to see how I
looked beneath. Neither my Mamma or my Aunt were big women; they were
rather what I call the thoroughbred type, about the Venus height and
slim, with splendid bottoms which I know must have been cultivated by
the most careful corsetage from earliest girlhood, so being a well
grown boy, the things just suited me. But to return to the
looking-glass, it made me in love with myself; the pretty stockings,
legs, garters and slippers, but what almost took my breath away was the
sight of the blue open network tights, which my ample thighs filled up
so that they fitted me to perfection, the blue showing up the flesh
tint beneath in a most ravishing manner and my Cock actually began to
stand as I contemplated the sight of myself, and thought of the effect
it might have on my Mamma. I felt so wicked, and as I passed along the
corridor--"La, what a pretty girl you make, Master Percy," came from a
pretty young chamber maid, as I passed her. "Do you think so, Patty," I
replied, "Just look at my chemise and how I am dressed underneath,"
opening my robe to give her a view. I felt so full of devilry that I
was half inclined to pull her into the nursery for a game.

"My Goodness!" she exclaimed, in surprise, "tights and all, you don't
look quite comfortable, but you'll do;" as her eyes must have caught
sight of my state of erection. "See what your Mamma will think of you,"
with a curious look on her face.

"Kiss me then, Patty," I said giving her a hug and pressing my lips to
hers, which she freely returned. "Now, go along and don't be rude, Mary
must have taught you something."

"Could you teach me anything, Patty, will you give me a lesson some
day?" I said, looking full in her eyes; "I think you can."

Blushing crimson, the girl got away from me, and ran into one of the
rooms; perhaps she expected to be followed, but I had other games in
view, relegating the pretty Patty to some future opportunity.

Entering Mamma's bed room as quietly as possible, I again contemplated
that divine bust till my Prick was rampantly stiff, the compression of
the net-work tights seeming only to increase the lascivious desire
which inflamed it more and more every moment. I was hot all over, and
my trepidation was so great, my knees knocked together; a shiver passed
through my frame.

Dare I kiss them? How awful should I be repulsed. Desperation gave me
courage.

"My beautiful Mamma, do let me kiss your lovely titties?" was all I
could say almost in a whisper as my voice quite failed, so great was my
agitation. First laying my burning cheek by the side of her heaving
bosom, I took a nipple between my lips, but had hardly done so, when:
"My darling boy, are you kissing your Mother's bosom? I was just
dreaming of my Percy. How nice of you to awake me like that;" but
seeing my get up, she started in surprise: "What have you got on? my
things, oh, you funny boy!" drawing my face to hers, and giving me such
kisses as I had never had from her before; they were like flames,
making my blood boil in a moment.

"Now, let me see how you have dressed your self, Percy," opening the
muslin robe. "Ah, chemise too, none of your own things." Playfully
lifting it up, you should have seen her eyes start as she caught sight
of my lower parts encased in her own open-net, blue tights; seeing how
Mr. John Thomas was excited, and seemed fit to break out at the instant.

"They are not big enough, they irritate you, Percy let me get them
off," she said, raising herself and as the bed-clothes fell back giving
me a sight of her golden-haired mount for a moment quickly as she
pushed her chemise over it. It was perfectly maddening, but I had to
act the innocent, and know nothing. "Come on the bed, then I can pull
them off, you silly boy, why did you put them on?" So I mounted on the
bed by her side, and she assisted me to remove the tights, lingering,
as I thought, unnecessarily long in doing so.

"Now, I can cuddle my boy. I haven't had you to myself for ever so
long, and how that thing of yours has grown! That net-work chafed you,
my dear, or it would never get like that."

Saying which, she made me lay by her side, clasping me tightly to her
bosom, which heaved tumultuously. "Poor thing, how hard and swollen it
is," she said, putting her hand on my affair. "Let me soothe it;
there--there--there, it will be all right soon," but I could feel her
heart beating furiously, whilst her beautiful face was aflame, and
those deep blue eyes seemed to dart sparks of love as she regarded me.
Imperceptibly I was drawn between her legs, and my tool throbbed
against her belly. "There is only one away, Percy, to cure that stiff
thing of yours; let me put it somewhere for you, my dear;" I was
passive in her hands, and she presently placed the head of my Prick
just inside her moist warm Cunt, for she had been spending in
anticipation, the effect was electric as far she was concerned, her
bottom gave one big upward heave, and I felt myself at last buried to
the hilt inside my own Mother. "Mamma Mamma, where have you put it? It
feels so warm and nice."

"Oh, my own boy, my Percy, I must have you; push it all into me, dear.
I must teach you; you will find it delicious to be cuddled in that way;
Ah, my love, my own boy, let me feel your soul flow into mine; let me
make you feel what real love is like."

"Mamma, Mamma darling, how nice! What are we doing to each other?"

"Making love, Percy dear, don't you like it?" as she pressed me closer
and tighter in her arms every moment, whilst her hot swimming Cunt
sucked me in ravenously at each thrust I gave.

"Making love is nice; may I often do it to you, Mamma?"

"Yes, my lovely boy, only never let a soul know it; it is thought so
improper, but now Percy, now push it all in--faster faster; I give you
my very life. Oh--Oh--I'm coming; can't you feel my warm flow?"

"Yes--yes, what is going to happen, Mother--Mamma I shall
burst.--Ah--there it is--Oh," as I had played my part to the end, and
was fairly exhausted by the spend and the intensity of my emotions.

Her arms held me tightly to her bosom, as she panted after her
excessive lubricity, keeping me still on the top of her, whilst the
contractions of her vagina treated my Prick to the most exquisite
compressions. I put one hand down to feel where I was, and ran my
fingers all round the lips of her salacious Cunt, putting them up
inside as far as they would reach. "Let your hand play with me, and
move yourself on me at the same time; let me teach you how to please
your Mother, who loves you so; do you know Percy, I have given you my
very life, my honour,--fancy a boy like you putting horns on the head
of his Father!"

"Mamma, dear, what do you mean, you talk so funny, how can I make horns
for Papa?"

"By what you are doing my love, by perhaps making me a baby; you will
understand some day."

"And would a baby be a brother, just like me?"

"Yes love, a brother or a sister--but Percy never a word to any one, as
you love me; this is so naughty, so wicked to do."

"Naughty, wicked, how can it be so to play with my Mamma!"

"Fathers or Mothers must not have their children like this, nor even
Brothers their Sisters; it is thought awful called 'Incest' in fact.
The Clergyman would say we were cursed--but that is all nonsense. We
know better; it's their business to call everybody sinners."

My Prick was now going great guns once more, swelling and poking her to
perfection.

"How long I have waited for this! Do you know what you are doing to me,
Percy."

"No, Mamma, what do you call it, and what is the name of the beautiful
place you put me in?"

"It's 'Fucking', that is the word for it, and you are in my Cunt, dear."

"Then I'm Fucking my own Mother, and my affair is pushing into her
Cunt; it is nice, Mamma."

"Yes, Heavenly, and call your affair your Prick; you have a grand Prick
for your age, my boy. Fuck me, shove it up as far as it will go at
every stroke you give. You can't hurt my Cunt; it will take your
hardest poking, the more vigorous you are, the greater the pleasure;
then when we come together, it is the greatest possible bliss. Love
your Mother, I have given all to possess my boy."

"What a glorious Mamma, and how I love her; you make me feel a very
part of yourself."

She heaved in response to every dig, faster, more furiously Fucking
every moment, till we both spent at the same instant, and my Prick
revelled in a very ocean of sperm, and we lay faint and spun out by our
exertions. "Let me look, Mother dear, I want to see where I am," I
presently said, throwing off the sheet which covered us, and then for
the first time had a realistic view of her belly and swelling mount,
covered with a luxuriant growth of reddish-golden hair; my fingers
instantly sought to part the curls which encircled my Prick, and
drawing out a little I could see the clinging vermilion lips of the
maternal vagina, which held on to my shaft, as if loth to part with its
prize. For a moment or two I continued the slow in and out motion to
see how it acted, but that was all she would permit, assuring me
further exertion just then would be too much for me.--"Percy, I must
mind you don't injure your health, so you must rest a little, then
perhaps tomorrow, my love."

She gave me a glass of liqueur, which made me all on fire to possess
her again; but she would not listen to anything of the kind, ordering
me to have a good ride on my pony before luncheon. It was a bracing
ride, but my thoughts were too distracted to think of anything but my
Mother, and I returned possessed by a Fucking Devil to surprise Patty
sleeping on Mary's bed, having undertaken to make the beds in her
absence, and knowing I was out, she was having a quiet nap. Looking at
her for a moment, my Prick stood at the thoughts of the charms under
her shirts, so gently lifting them, I saw she had no drawers on, only
nice stockings and slippers, but just then she opened her eyes. "Oh,
Master Percy, no, you shan't," trying to put her skirts down,--but I
had the advantage, and keeping her down, said: "You looked at me, now I
will see all you have Patty, and kiss it, too." She struggled, but did
not cry out, and I succeeded in kissing her naked thighs, whilst her
hands covered her Fanny, so throwing myself by her side, I tried all I
could to inflame her desires, by kissing her lips, which she returned,
and then getting bolder, pushed my tongue between her lips, and she
soon began to get quite hot and flushed: then now I was not attempting
to look, my hand had better success below, slowly overcoming all
obstacles, till I got a finger in her slit, and began to rub the
ticklish spot of love. She gave a long deep sigh, and sucked in my
tongue, the tip of her own meeting mine in the most amorous manner; I
took one of her hands and placed it on my trousers just over where my
Prick was throbbing in expectation, she gave a start and I let it out,
placing it in her hand, "Oh, Patty," I whispered, "won't you make me
happy, you feel how it is, dear."

"Oh, Master Percy, I'm afraid, I never did such a thing; oh, let me go;
pray, pray, do!" taking her hand away, and trying to get up; but I had
got one leg between hers, so rolling over on top of her, tried to push
my advantage.

"Never, never;" she almost screamed, "I'll shout out if you try to."

But having gone so far, and being quite furious with lust for a Fuck no
matter who, if only nice; I pushed ruthlessly, holding her in my arms
like a vice, whilst by sucking and tonguing her lips, I kept her from
screaming. Nature assisted me a little. The girls own emotions made her
spend and I knew it by the deep drawn respiration and the quivering of
her frame, as the spasm came. My Prick had got its head just inside her
crack, when the soothing emission came opportunely to assist his
progress, and tight little virgin as she was, desperately writhing and
struggling under me, my charger gradually won his way, till furiously
plunging and drawing her to me with all my strength, the hymen was
broken through, as she screamed and sobbed for me to spare her; but I
pushed on, tearing and stretching her tender passage; although so
young, my big Prick was quite too much for her; at length all was over.
I came, I saw and I conquered, shooting my love balm into her wounded
Cunt for a second time before I would let her get up; not till then did
I feel sorry for the ruin I had effected, but her sobs were so genuine
I did all I could to soothe her, and promised to be more loving and
gentle another time. "Ah, you bad boy, I don't know if I shan't tell
your Mamma." "I'll never forgive you," she said, when at last she
stopped crying before leaving the room.

My tool was blood-stained, so I carefully sponged it and looked to see
if there were any other evidences of Patty's rape on the bed, but
fortunately her clothes had saved that.

I was rather late for luncheon. Mamma looked so lovely and fresh, her
blue eyes beamed love on me at every glance, and she supplied me with
the most nourishing delicacies besides two or three glasses of
champagne. She asked me how I had enjoyed my riding.--"Oh, it was
delightful, Mamma," I said thinking of her and Patty.

"Percy, will you read to me, dear, this afternoon as I want to get on
with a bit of work for the bazaar. You know Mr. Pokemall will be angry
with me if I don't do something for the vicarage stall."

"Couldn't you pacify him, Mamma?"

"Percy, don't be sarcastic, I hate the sight of him, only we must
appear to be good."

She took me to her boudoir, which made me think of Mary's tale. "Oh, if
the couch could tell me all it knew!" I thought.

Seated on a stool at her feet I read from Ouida's "Moths" for a little
but she did not care for that, so asked me to look into Zola's "Nana"
and read about her love for Satin. "But Mamma, Satin was a girl, what
could she do to make Nana love her so?"

"They were Lesbians, my dear, girls who prefer sucking and kissing each
other to being fucked by a man."

"Mamma, do you like your Cunt kissed? Let me do it for you."

She did not reply, but threw her skirts over my head, as I sat below
her on the stool, putting me at once into darkness, and almost driving
me wild as I sniffed the mixed aroma of her perfumed Cunt; my hand
groped along her thighs, feeling how soft they were, encased in what I
believed to be the same openwork tights I had tried on in the morning,
but they fitted so closely, I could not get fairly at her. However, not
to be baffled, I got my fingers inside and split them up, then my lips
sought her mossy-covered mount, and my tongue found her hot, moist
slit, all dripping with the creamy emission she had already discharged,
working its way as she now opened her legs to facilitate my operations.
How eagerly my mouth sucked her clitoris, which I kept between my lips,
as she wriggled with pleasure, and I could feel her hands outside,
pressing my head to keep me there--sucking--sucking, I rolled the
fleshy morsel in my mouth and titillated it with my tongue; at the same
time, at first one, and then two fingers found their way into her
bottom-hole, the muscle of which held them tenaciously, as they frigged
her rapidly. "Ah--Oh--Oh, you love of a boy!" I heard her cry. "Frig
me, suck me. I'm spending. Oh--Ah!" And a flood of sperm gushed all
over my lips and chin, as I swallowed all I could catch in my mouth. I
never gave up working on that delicious clitoris, and even gave little
bites now and then, as she reclined backward, sighing each time I
slightly relaxed my efforts. "More, more, more, my love!" till at
length, mad with desire, I jumped up and rammed my excited Prick into
her reeking cunt, just in time to let her have the benefit of my
emission.

My lips and mouth were all covered with sperm, but quite regardless of
that she kissed and sucked my lips in the most lascivious manner,
keeping my cock tightly imprisoned in her tight fitting sheath, which
seemed able to take in and keep possession of any sized tool.

A very short time sufficed to start us on again, and another most
delicious Fuck rewarded me for all my first loving attentions to her
Cunt.

"What a fucker you are, Percy; only to think I never had you before to
day.--My mouth, my tongue, my bosom, my cunt, even my arse, shall be
all yours; now I spend--Fuck--shove your balls into your mother, she is
all yours, Percy."

"And how I love to fuck you, Mamma. My prick is all for you heavenly
Cunt; am I pleasing you, darling mother? Have I learned to fuck
properly? May I dress up in your chemise and drawers again? Do I make a
pretty girl?" And I went on, making my Prick revel in that swimming
cunt, till the floodgates of love opened and a rush of my sperm
assuaged her burning lust for the time. Still she wanted to take my
cock in her mouth, but as it was limp, I tucked it away between my
legs, laughingly pretending to be a girl, as I really knew I had done
enough for that day at least.

Thus ended my first day's enjoyment of my Beautiful Mother. In another
volume I purpose to write the Further Adventures of a Precocious Boy,
and after that go on to the Secret of my Life up to present time.





FINIS





MORE FORBIDDEN FRUIT OR

MASTER PERCY'S PROGRESS

In and beyond

the Domestic Circle





MORE FORBIDDEN FRUIT





MY BEAUTIFUL MOTHER


My mother was too wise to allow Mary to sleep in the same room with me
after having, as she thought, opened my eyes and allowed me to taste
the forbidden fruit of love. That night I was glad to retire early and
went to sleep fully believing my usual bed-fellow would lay herself by
my side when she returned home with my aunt; but I slept soundly till
the next morning and was greatly surprised to find myself alone when I
awoke in the morning, and lay for some time wondering how it
was--supposing of course they had stayed at my aunt's friends all
night. About eight o'clock there was a tap at the door, and I called
out "Come in!" and there was Patty all blushes and smiles to say it was
nearly breakfast time.

"Here, Patty," I said, holding out my arms to her, "Come and forgive my
rudeness to you yesterday. Kiss me; then I shall be sure you do."

"How can I help loving you, Master Percy, after what you did to me?" as
she threw her arms round my neck and imprinted a long, burning kiss on
my lips.

"You didn't have Mary here last night; your Mamma made her sleep with
her last night, and they are not up yet, so I made a pretence to call
you. I couldn't get you out of my thoughts all night, you wicked, bad
boy. Now you have ruined me."

"My love, how could I help it? You looked so tempting as you lay asleep
on the bed," I said, getting one hand up her clothes till it fairly
grasped her mossy palpitating love grot.

She didn't struggle, but said softly: "Ah, no, you mustn't, you'll make
me a baby, Percy; you are such a big, strong fellow."

"You don't love me, Patty, or you would want me again, but I mean to
have it now, just this once, my darling, so don't make a fuss, I must
have you now," pulling her down by my side as I threw off the sheet,
which was all I had over me, and exposed to her view my Prick in a most
glorious state of erection.

There was no resistance now, as I made her grasp the staff of life and
champion of love in her hand. "What a big thing!" she whispered. "Only
to think it has been in me, or I should be dreadfully frightened, you
bad, bad boy," she whispered, gluing her lips to mine in a long, ardent
kiss. It was too delicious to hurry matters, her hand was gently, and I
believe instinctively, caressing my delighted Prick, which seemed ready
to burst from excessive desire, as our tongues met in rapturous
dartings in and out of each other's mouths. She heaved a deep sigh, and
knowing the psychological moment had arrived with her, I rolled over
between her legs, and her own fingers, directed by the intensity of her
feelings, put the head of my affair well within the lips of her
swimming Cunt, one or two easy shoves sending it home to her heart's
desire, as she heaved up to meet the penetrating strokes.

"Ah, how lovely, to feel it all in me again! You don't know how I have
longed for you once more. Percy darling, since you ruined me yesterday.
Ah, that was awful, how you stretched and tore into my poor Pussy, and
yet, you bad boy, I loved you for it, I wanted it so; why didn't you
run after me when I run away from you in the corridor at first? But I
guess it was Mamma you were after just then, dressed as you were in her
things. The sight of you and that kiss did make me feel hot. Now tell
me everything, or I will shove you off, and you shan't have any fun
with me."

I had got her too tight, but to please her and add zest to my fucking,
I told her what a love my mother was, and how we had enjoyed ourselves
in her bed, adding, "No fear, I shall fuck every one in the house now,
neither my mother or my aunt shall stop me now I have found out what a
pleasure it is."

"You dear boy, Percy. I must have my share, even if you make me a baby:
shove into me! Quicker! Faster! Fuck me hard! Ah! oh! it's coming
again. Spunk into your Patty. Say you will love me a little."

My boiling hot sperm shot into her delighted cunt at that same moment,
making her squirm with the excess of her emotion, but it never relaxed
in stiffness and kept on poking away, and making her more and more
excited till we both came again in a perfect flood of love juice, which
was so profuse that my balls and thighs, as well as her notch and legs,
were all drowned in the creamy, viscous fluid and we lay panting and
exhausted. There was no time for further fucking just then, so I rushed
off to the bath-room to refresh myself.

Aunt Gertie was my sole companion at the breakfast table, and she eyed
me with a peculiar look as I hungrily put away a lot of devilled
kidneys, as well as two raw eggs beat up and mixed in my coffee, to
which she slyly added a little fine old Cognac, a speciality of my
father as a pick-me-up after too much woman.

"Percy," she said archly, "Did you miss Mary last night? Mamma took
care to keep her away from you now she thinks she has opened your eyes.
I knew she would take advantage of our being away yesterday to take
what she thinks was your maidenhead, but we know better, don't we,
dear. Still you must give Auntie Gertie her due now and then, as I
taught you first. Tell me how she seduced you, Percy."

"Oh, Gertie, you know I was mad for her and didn't wait for her to give
me a chance. I went and caught her asleep, so I dressed up in her
chemise and that blue open-work combination, slippers, stockings, and
all: it did show everything off, and the size of my bursting prick made
her eyes start, I can tell you. Yet I pretended to not know anything,
and acted the innocent so well she thinks she taught me everything. Ah!
it was lovely--luscious--I can tell you; so I didn't want Mary much
last night, you may be sure. But talking of it makes me awfully stiff
now; let me kiss your lovely cunt, and have a fuck on the chair. We
can't go anywhere else; the servants won't come unless rung for."

My head was soon under shirts, and my tongue made that lascivious cunt
of hers quiver and spend in profusion, as I sucked out every drop, then
jumping up, as rampant as a goat, I pulled her across my lap as I sat
on a chair; her hands taking hold of my terribly rigid instrument and
holding it straight to the mark, as she slowly impaled herself on it;
then, gluing her lips to mine, she almost sucked my breath away as she
rode up and down on my champion. We were both too hot for it to last
long, her spendings gushed in response to my emission at the critical
moment, and we revelled in a sea of delight, her cunt nipping me so
tightly that I kept on tossing her up and down on it, and a long drawn
out engagement made us both so excited that when we spent again the
erotic fury gave me such strength that I fairly lifted her in my arms
as I stood up and danced her on my prick, without any support from the
chair, till I reeled back spent and exhausted, dragging her to the
floor by my side. How we laughed when we recovered a little, and
resolved to have many more such fucks after breakfast when Mamma
happened to lay late.

"Now I shall go and have a look at them in bed, and, if Mary is still
with Mamma, will get in between them. Won't that be a lark, Gert?"

"What a boy my Percy is," she said, kissing me. "Take a drop of Papa's
liqueur, and perhaps, after all I have done, you will be able to do as
much as she can expect after what she did for you yesterday."

I had a nip of that wonderful liqueur, which must have been the same as
Mary had mentioned when telling me of the scene between Capt. Devereux
and his sisters, for it fired my blood, and if my aunt had not vanished
I should have been into her again, so powerful was the aphrodisiac
effect.

My prick was as rampant as ever, so I dashed away to my room, stripped
quite naked and throwing a dressing-gown around me, hurried to Mamma's
bed-room. Entering very stealthily, I surprised her and Mary in the
midst of a Tribadic scene each with her head buried between the other's
thighs and busy sucking the love-juices as greedily as possible. The
bottom nearest to me happened to belong to darling Mary, and the sudden
fancy possessed me to put my eager prick into the lovely little brown
hole which Mamma's finger was just then probing rapidly, to the girl's
evident delight, judging by the way she swayed her buttocks about and
pressed down her cunt reciprocating every touch of tongue, mouth, or
busy fingers.

Dropping my dressing-gown. I was there in a moment. One hand pulled
back my Mamma's fingers as the other presented the head of His
Randiness to the wrinkled, brown bum hole of Miss Mary, which was
fairly lubricated by the finger-frigging it had had, and got the head
of my prick really lodged within the tight entrance before the girl was
aware of what was happening.

Mamma realised the situation at once, as with a suppressed ejaculation
of "Ah, rogue, push it all into her," she grasped poor Mary firmly
round her waist, so she could not get away from me.

"Oh, Lord, what's that? How big it is. Ah, no, no, you shan't, Mr.
Percy. Oh, Madame, pray don't let him do that to me," she almost
screamed as she found out who it was and what I was at; but all her
efforts to frustrate me were useless, as I held on tightly to her
buttocks with both hands pulling her towards me, as my prick shoved
his way gradually in, till I accomplished the ravishing of her second
maidenhead. The state of extreme lubricity in which I had surprised her
made my conquest easier than it might otherwise have been, and now I
was in she soon began to get still more excited, and Mamma had no
further occasion to hold her so tightly, and busied herself by kissing
and caressing my balls as they banged against the girl's bottom at
every stroke. The liqueur I had taken had the effect of making me
desperately stiff, although it did not hasten the climax, which to our
mutual enjoyment was some time in coming off, and words fail me to
describe the erotic ardour of this bottom-fuck; I ground my teeth like
any one in a rage every time I plunged into that burning back passage
of hers, and she seemed beside herself with emotion, squealing and
sobbing from excessive pleasure, till at last my spunk squirted right
up to her vitals, and I knew she also experienced the very acme of
bliss, although it seemed to have been one long continued spend with
her and my mother.

After enjoying the compressions of that delicious arsehole for a few
minutes I withdrew with difficulty. My priapism continued so violent,
and prick was so enormously distended that when at last it came out
there was a flop like the drawing of a very tight cork.

Mamma seized my member and sucked it clean in her mouth, but finding
there was not the least relaxation of stiffness wished also to have it
in her bottom.

Mary could hardly yet believe that my now enormous tool had really been
up her back entrance, so she wished to see the operation performed, and
getting off Mamma, made her kneel up dog-fashion and taking her old
friend in her hand, presented its head to my mother's bottom, as I
mounted behind. It was not a virgin like Mary's and was well stretched
by previous insertions of her husband's and other pricks; still my
priapism continued so strong on me, and my affair was so enlarged, it
was no very easy matter to shove past her tight sphincter muscle, which
gripped the head of my prick and made further progress hard to achieve.

The idea of fucking my own mother's bottom increased my ardour, I felt
actually stronger than ever, and should have liked to get in balls and
all; her buttocks were pushed out to facilitate my efforts, and getting
past that muscular obstruction, my cock glided in to the roots of my
sprouting hair; what a luscious feeling that was; Mary was handling my
balls most lovingly, as she feared they might be lost inside, and I
could feel her kissing my rump.

"Now it's all in. Fuck me well, Percy, my love! don't forget it's your
own mother who gives all to her dear boy. Make it last as long as
possible. Frig my cunt, Mary--put in two fingers. Now go on, but not
too fast at first--gentle strokes bring the greatest pleasure, till at
length we go crescendo. Oh, you do it so nicely, my love, my own boy!
Isn't he a darling, Mary? He shall fuck you, my love, as often as he
likes; only I must have my boy when I want him."

"Darling Mamma--my own mother. Do I do it nicely?" as my cock pushed
slowly and gently in and out of that delicious bottom, which closed so
tightly on my enraptured tool, feeling as hot as a fresh poultice; the
grip on the sphincter muscle and the heat inside combining to produce
the most voluptuous sensations.

I got beside myself with the erotic intensity of pleasure, and soon
began a rather furious pushing; each drive increased my ardour, making
her wriggle and squirm her buttocks about so that had I not got a firm
grasp with my hands I should have lost my position. Mary's fingers
frigged her rapidly as well, and she managed with her other hand to
caress my testicles, and every now and then grasped the root of my
prick, drawing back the skin of the foreskin, so that each plunge gave
me the most intense delight, the head and shoulders of my prick being
so well bared, I felt the contraction of her anus in the most exquisite
degree.

My priapism was too violent for me to spend quickly, so this was a most
delicious drawn out bottom-fuck, which seemed never ending to me, and I
could feel dear Mary's fingers well up her cunt, as only the thin
membrane was between them and my burning tool.

Sometimes she withdrew her fingers, all dripping with my mother's
copious emissions, and tried to insert them by the side of my prick in
the maternal arse-hole, but only succeeded in getting one up alongside
of Mr. Pego; this was a lovely idea and tended even more to excite me.

"Spend, mother darling. Shove your bottom out to meet every poke I give
you, I shall come soon now!" I almost shouted in my savage delight.
"Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!--Ah, this is Fucking. It's come! Don't you feel it
shoot up you, dearest mother? Oh, oh, I'm done now!" as I fell
exhausted and rolled by her side on the bed.

She drew my face to hers between her two hands--laughing, sobbing, and
crying from the excess of her feelings. "My boy, my own Percy, how you
did fuck me, you dear," smothering me with a profusion of the most
loving hot kisses, whilst Mary, also carried away by the scene in which
she had participated, took possession of my still stiff machine and
sucked it till she had extracted every drop that still oozed from it.

We had been nearly an hour over these two bouts of bottom-fucking, and
now felt so done up we fell asleep in a confused heap of disorder,
uncovered as we lay and our parts reeking with the overflow of so much
spending.

It was long past mid-day when I opened my eyes again on the scene, Mary
was gone, but darling Mamma was ardently examining my manly cock,
feeling how stiff it was still, and gently frigging it with the softest
possible up and down motion of her delicate hand, covering and
uncovering the ruby-coloured head as her hand moved the skin.

"Let me feel your lovely cunt, my own mother's cunt," as I got my
fingers between the pouting lips of her vermilion slit, working them
gently so as gradually to again rouse all the lubricity of her nature.
Within a couple of minutes a flood of sperm rewarded my efforts to
please her, and she gasped in ecstasy: "What a boy you are! There is
such a magnetism in your touch, I came directly. In fact, the idea of
possessing you, my lovely boy, makes me spend continuously. I even kept
coming in the short sleep I have just had, and when I awoke your
precious prick was still standing hard in my hand; you don't come
often, and I am rather afraid of injuring you, my pet! but I must have
it once more; once more feel this fleshy jewel probing up towards my
very heart. Lie still on your back and take it as easy as you can: I
will do all the work."

Saying which she rolled me over, then kneeling across me, took my
inflamed prick, now as hard as ivory, and placing the head to her
longing notch, slowly settled her body down upon it as it gradually
slipped in, and seemed to fill and distend even her well-used
cunt--used as it had been to take in the manly affairs of husband,
brother, or others.

"You dear boy, how your grand, young prick fills your mother. To think
my boy is such a splendid fellow! What a fucker you will be!" she said
laying herself over me and kissing my lips rapturously, but never for a
moment allowing her glorious cunt to lose hold of my cock. Sitting up
again, she slowly raised her buttocks up and down, so as to let me feel
each insertion, nipping me so tightly that the folds of her vagina
turned back the foreskin each time she came down on me. This fired me
so I could not keep still, but grasping her round the hips, I bucked up
to meet each downward motion, sending my delighted tool chock up to the
entrance of her womb. Now and again she settled down on me in the
closest possible conjunction and treated my prick to the most enjoyable
contractions on the very head of my bursting engine, till at length
quite a sudden paroxysm made me eject right into her womb as she
imparted to me a most singular quivering sensation, the sure indication
to both of us of a real impregnation.

"You've done it again, Percy. I shall have twins, and if they are girls
you shall fuck them as soon as they are old enough," she said with a
laugh. "But really, my darling, I should like my own boy to make me a
baby--you would be both father and brother to it. Now we must get up
for luncheon or Aunt Gert will be after us. She always knew I would
have you, and you may have her some day."

"You lovely mother," I said, clinging to her for another kiss. "I shall
fuck you all in this house. I know I shall, now I think of nothing
else. There's you, auntie, Mary, and Patty. I must have her too. May I
Mamma?"

"What a boy it is: but you must always love Mamma best, Percy, won't
you?"

"Yes, darling mother; but you have taught my prick to fuck, and--and I
want so to shove it into every nice woman or girl I see. I know I
shan't be able to help myself."

"To-night you are to sleep in that room next to mine, and I won't let
you do any more for a day or two: you must not be exhausted by too much
of it, or you will soon be ruined in your health. So I must now keep
you away from Mary, as your eyes are opened to the forbidden fruit."

However inclined I might be for the incestuous embraces of my lovely
mother, the door being locked on the other side, it could only be when
she thought proper to admit me, as she intended to have due regard for
my health, and not allow a boy of my age to run into excesses, which
might ruin my constitution.

She could also now (as she thought) take care that neither of the
others should rob her of very much of my puerile vigour, which was so
precocious considering my age. For a day or two her precautions were
quite needless, as when my violent priapism had subsided it left my
energies in a very relaxed state, and I would seriously advise any of
my readers who may think of resorting to Aphrodisiacal stimulants, to
have nothing to do with them, but rather to trust to the impulses of
their nature; when they really need a good fuck the cock-stand will be
evident enough; forcing nature only tends to after enervation, and
should only be resorted to on some special occasion when one really
wishes to prove himself a champion in the arena of Love. Then it may be
excusable.

But to return to my story: I did not at all relish the idea of Mamma's
supervision, it was repugnant to my idea of personal liberty, and had
the contrary effect, in making me restive under such restraint, and
firmly resolved to do as I liked every chance I could get. One morning
I had a most pleasant dream. "I was in a beautiful garden, laying on
the soft turf under some rose bushes, when just as I was hand-frigging
myself two delicious looking little girls stood before me, holding up
their frocks, and showing me their rosebuds of hairless slits, as they
also rubbed and frigged their little cunts, smiling and telling me they
could. They were exquisitely dressed in the Watteau style, looking
almost like Dresden figures, being so chic and delicate; then, seating
themselves one on each side me on the grass, they proceeded to handle
and play with my great big prick, allowing me at the same time to frig
their two little cunts for them, till the juice spurted from my affair
right up into their faces, and I could feel their sticky young
spendings all over my busy fingers." I awoke and found I had quite
deluged the sheet with a flood of sperm. This dream made me reflect and
think where such little dears could be found. I was quite innocent as
regards knowing what an awful offence it would be to poke or take
liberties with such little girls, so resolved to take a walk in search
of adventures.

Our residence stood in large grounds of its own, surrounded by a
delightful country stretching away in a long vista to the South Downs.
Papa owned several farms in the neighbourhood, so we were generally
respected and looked up to by the working class and their families, as
Mamma disbursed a good deal in helping any who might be in trouble.

I remembered one labourer's family, the husband a carter who never got
home till late in the evening, as his work was rather at a distance;
his wife, about thirty or a little more, was a fine, handsome, young
woman with a ruddy, tanned face, but oh! such brown eyes as she looked
at you from under her dark eyelashes. She was a fine woman of her
class, and I had once heard Mamma say Peter, her husband, had to marry
Phoebe (that was her name) very young as he had got her into trouble;
she had three very pretty little girls--ten, eleven, and twelve years
old--regular beauties, with the same dark brown eyes and arch looks as
their mother, and they were well grown for their ages. This was my
mark. I had often been with Mamma on a visit to their cottage when they
had any little illness, and carried a basket of nice things for them. I
didn't know their family name, but Phoebe always kissed me and so did
the girls when they were well. "Master Percy, Master Percy," they would
call out as soon as ever I got in sight, because I generally had some
sweets in my pocket for them. Now I had not been to the cottage for
quite two years, and wondered if Phoebe would kiss me now. I would her
if I got the chance. It was only about a mile to walk from our house
down an unfrequented lane leading to nowhere but an old farm-house
further on.

Mrs. Twiggs, our housekeeper, lent me a small basket, so I went into
the pantry and helped myself to a good sized cake, some eggs, and a
bottle of port wine, as I said I had heard that Phoebe was rather
delicate.

I timed myself to get to the cottage soon after their mid-day meal, so
as to have a long afternoon in case I found any sport.

Phoebe was all smiles as she answered my rap at the cottage door. "Oh,
Master Percy, how you have grown, and how's your Mamma--I hope she
isn't ill?"

"No thanks, Phoebe, I heard you were not quite well, so made up my mind
to walk over with some new-laid eggs and a bottle of wine for you and a
cake for the girls; where are they?"

"How kind of you, Master Percy, who could have told you that? I'm all
right, and the girls have gone to see their grand-mother at Becton and
won't get home much before dark, so I'm alone; no-one ever comes so see
me. Thank you so much. Won't you come in and sit down for a rest?"

"That I will, Phoebe, and I feel done up carrying that basket. You
might draw the cork and give me a glass of port, and a drop will do you
good."

The cork was soon drawn, and she drank to my health with her "Best
respects to you, Master Percy. How you have grown, I shan't like to
kiss you now."

"Why not, Phoebe, what harm can it be? I have often sat on your lap and
kissed you when my mother was here, and I mean to again."

"Oh, no, it isn't proper only with little boys. They're harmless you
know; now you're so big you must only kiss your young lady sweetheart,
or Mamma, or your dear aunt, Miss Gertie."

"But you must give me one, or I shall feel quite a stranger. What harm
can it be?"

"Well I don't know any harm, and you're a dear, kind boy to think of
us, as you have, but I mustn't do it again before any one," as putting
her glass down she stood up and kissed my cheek, and would have sat
down again; but my arm was round her waist in a moment, drawing her
close to me, my lips kissed hers, then her cheeks and lips again.

"You only gave me half a kiss, Phoebe, I must have a proper one,"
pushing her back on her chair, and seating myself on her lap. "This is
how I want it, just as you used to do. Now kiss me nicely."

Her rich-colored face crimsoned, and I felt her splendid bosom heave
with emotion as I fairly glued my lips to hers, and tried to push my
tongue between her lips, and one hand tried to get inside her
neck-kerchief.

"You mustn't, you wicked boy. What a flutter you have put me into: now
get away do, Master Percy. You ought not to kiss me like that."

But she only struggled faintly; my hand slipped inside her bosom and
felt those still lovely firm orbs, as her heart palpitated and her lips
gradually relaxed till my tongue fairly met hers tip to tip.

"Ah, you rogue! how bad you make me feel," returning my caresses, and
rubbing one hand up and drown my back, as if she only wished she dared
put it in front.

"Percy, Percy, Master Percy, for shame, don't be so rude," as I
suddenly placed her hand on my big prick which I had let out of my
trousers. "What a size for a boy of fourteen, and I believe you know a
lot."

"Yes, Phoebe, I know what 'cunt' and 'fuck' mean; shall we have a game?
We're all alone, and it is so nice--you have made me feel wild." I was
now raising her skirts and soon had my hands up a splendid pair of
thighs, fit for Venus herself, and quite innocent of drawers, as a
delightful aroma of cunt made me feel still more randy. Separating her
legs, as she lay back in the chair, I could see what a splendid white
skin she had, and the lips of her cunt just peeping out from a
profusion of almost black brown hair. Not a word passed between us as I
tried to get into her, but I could hear the heavy breathing and the
almost audible palpitation of her heart. I was a little awkward, but
her hand helped me to go straight: the head of my eager prick got in,
and, she pushing herself forward, I progressed upwards within the folds
of her vagina and found myself at full length in one of the hottest
cunts I had yet felt. "Wait a moment, don't hurry, dear; let me enjoy
it--this is a treat, Master Percy. I couldn't help myself, but it is so
awfully wicked you know."

She kept me like that for quite five minutes, the inner folds of that
amorous cunt of hers pressing and nipping the head of my prick, her
arms were tightly clasped round my back, so I could scarcely move,
whilst her lips seemed as if they would eat mine, and her tongue was
regularly fucking my mouth.

"Let me fuck you, Phoebe, you're making me come. I can't stop it, dear.
Ah, oh! There it is shooting up you. Can't you feel it?"

"Yes, yes, I'm spending too, Percy, you love; what a grand prick to
hold in my cunt--Peter's isn't near so big--you fill me up so
beautifully, besides he only fucks me on Sundays; he is too tired to do
it during the week. Will you come and see Phoebe as often as you can?
Now fuck me well, you dear boy."

Without losing my stiffness, I went on drawing right out to the head of
my instrument and pushing it slowly in again, which soon drove her
quite wild.

"Faster quicker, fuck hard, darling!" she almost screamed, and as I did
so with all my force, she lay back and gave quite a neighing squeal in
the excess of her lubricity. I came again at the same moment. So
finished my first fuck with the splendid country woman, who was indeed
a rough jewel in her way. She would not permit any more just then, so I
took leave of her after we had kissed each other's parts, and she made
me promise not to be long before I called again.

All the way home my prick was very troublesome to me, I had not had
enough; it repeatedly stood stiff so that I could hardly walk, and I
think it must have been that, like many quiet women who seldom think
their cunts require a bath, she had treated me to rather too much
essence of woman.

Mamma made me read to her and Auntie after dinner till it was time to
retire. My morning's adventure, as I thought over it and all the
possibilities it promised for future pleasure (not only with Phoebe,
but also her three girls) now roused me to a state of quite furious
lust.

"Mamma, Mamma!" I shouted as I jumped out of bed and rattled at the
door between our rooms. "Open, oh open, mother, I'm so ill!"

This ruse answered at once, and I found Mary was with her, as, opening
the door, anxiously enquired what was the matter.

"Look, look, I shall die! It's so stiff," lifting my night shirt to let
her see my glorious state of erection, as I rushed in and jumped on her
bed, where I found darling Mary under the coverlet. Being mad for a
fuck I tried to uncover her, but she rolled herself in the bed-clothes
laughing at my baffled efforts to get at her.

"Help me, Mary, to hold him tight. I'll make his bottom tingle for
cheating me like that," grasping me by her left arm round my waist and
keeping me face downwards on the bed. "You're ill are you, Percy? Well
I'm the doctor; a few good spanking slaps will do you good. Hold him
tight, Mary, he's so strong and so wicked. There, there, how do you
like that--and that--and that? Kick away my boy!" as I plunged and
yelled under the smarting smacks.

"The poor boy; pray don't be too hard on him," said Mary, holding me
tightly with both arms around my neck, and kissing me amorously at the
same time.

"Well, well, you take his part, do you, you wanton girl? you are as bad
as he is. No doubt this has been planned between you; have him then and
see what you will get by it."

Mary disentangled herself from the coverlet, etcetera, and opening her
delicious thighs, my randy weapon instantly found its way into her
spending cunt, which was so well lubricated that the entrance was
effected almost instantly, and she heaved up in delight as she felt the
full insertion of the object she so desired. My mother was equal to the
occasion, having perhaps even rehearsed it with her beforehand; taking
two long long leather straps, she passed one underneath dear Mary's
buttocks and buckled it tightly over my plump bottom, so that we could
not enjoy the proper fucking motion, and in answer to our
expostulations that it was too tight, quickly passed the second strap
over my left shoulder bringing it back under her left and my right
armpit.

Thus strapped together we could scarcely move, excepting our hands and
feet.

"Mamma, Mamma, this isn't fair, how can we do it like that? I shall
never come unless I can push it in and out properly; do, do, loosen the
straps a little."

"Or, no, Percy, that is not my game; you'll spend soon enough, my boy."

She had now got a broad strap, something like the one to the window of
a first-class railway carriage, made of tough, hard webbing, with a
knotted, tasselled end.

"Look here," she said, "all you have got to do, is to roll over, so I
can touch up first one and then the other; the uppermost bottom gets
the worst of it, so it's a fine game both for me and you." Then a dull
thud made me feel that strap. Thud! Thud! Thud! in succession, each
blow a little harder. It not only made me smart and twist, but the
knotted ends hurt amazingly.

Wriggling both hands feet, I tried to turn Mary over me, but she was
strong and lithe as a cat. Both bums now caught it hot, the stinging
thuds helped us to roll over one another, so that neither escaped the
incessant attack of dear Mamma. After a few minutes the painful novelty
wore off, and I awakened to the awfully nice sensations I was
experiencing, for although debarred from proper fucking motions of the
in and out thrust as usual, the way we twisted and the little, short
perks each impact of the tawse gave to our buttocks made us more
excited each moment; added to which, Mary's nutcrackers acted their
part on the head of my member most deliciously. Needless to say the
spending with both of us was continuous, and the emitted sperm fairly
gushed from us at each jerk.

"Oh, Mary you darling, you love! Keep on. Mamma dear, you are giving us
a lesson in pleasure. This beats all I have felt yet!" whilst Mary
hugged me closer every moment, kissing my lips and cooing out her words
of loving endearment.

I suppose it was quite a quarter of an hour before Mamma let us loose,
and we lay pumped out in each other's arms.

"Now it is my turn, when you feel sufficiently recovered. Mary, never
mind if his affair is not quite stiff. Use the tawse well and it will
soon do its duty to me."

My late partner quickly got up, and with her dark eyes flashing
excitement, rapidly adjusted the straps, and with her hand tucked my
rather limp tool into the maternal notch, which felt as if boiling over
with her hot emissions of semen.

Lips to lips, Ma and I sucked and tongued as the tawse descended
rapidly on our twisting buttocks. Mary evidently meant to pay out her
mistress as hard as she could now she was at her mercy, making her
fairly gasp as the stinging thuds whacked on that glorious bottom,
making it writhe and flinch at each blow, causing the maternal cunt to
quiver and grip my stiffening member more and more tightly each instant.

The rigidity of my raging prick was almost painful; my previously
exhausted forces requiring a long time to quite come to the spending
point; but each flood of joy gushing from my mother added to my lustful
sensations, till in about twenty minutes the flood-gates burst again in
such a torrent that previous efforts seemed as nothing to it.

"Enough for this time, I think," gasped Mamma, as she pressed me in her
arms, and tried all she knew, with the inner folds of her vagina, to
squeeze out the very last drop of my young love-juice.

All three of us adjourned to the bathroom, and the rest of that day
found us doing our best to recuperate exhausted nature.

Longing for another spree at Phoebe's cottage, I knew I must keep
myself from excesses, so tried my best to remain quiet, going fishing
or riding to pass the time: but at night I lay thinking of Phoebe and
her three little girls. The idea so took my fancy I was mad to get at
them.

At last the suspense was ended, and I found myself one day at the
cottage door, with a basket of nice things requisitioned from the
housekeeper, which she had packed up for me.

Phoebe, as soon as she saw who it was, throwing her arms round my neck,
"Oh, you dear Percy, to think I have you again! but it's so unlucky,
dear, you can't touch me to-day," she said, kissing me as ardently as
ever. "Oh, isn't that a shame? To think I should be so, just when you
come to see me."

This was a poser for me, as in my youthful ignorance I had never come
across such an obstruction to pleasure before.

"Why, Phoebe, what do you mean? Look at my affair, how stiff it is as
soon as you kissed me," pulling out Mr. Pego to broad daylight.

"For shame, Master Percy! the girls might see you, they are close by in
the garden," and then taking me into her sitting-room, she blushingly
explained in me the custom of women, as the Bible calls it.

"We can't do anything to-day, dearie, the three girls are about; it is
holiday time and I never expected you."

"Oh, my Lord! what shall I do if I can't fuck some one? How I should
like a game with your girls, and to feel their little cunts, even if I
could not fuck them: look, Phoebe I've got six sovereigns in my pocket,
you shall have it all, if you let me have a spree with them."

How her eyes glistened at the sight of so much gold, probably more than
she had ever seen in her life before.

"Why, Percy, you are worse than an old man. Mr. Jones, our parson, is a
bad'un, but you beat him. Three at once, oh my! He only fingers Patty
now and then, but says the others are too young. Patty doesn't half
like it, you know, but then it's a good thing for me, as when I go and
row the parson about it he always squares me with half a sou, so I just
smacks Patty's arse well and threaten to murder her if she says a word
to any one. It won't do to kill the goose that lays golden eggs, but we
must be careful. They are sure to be in mischief, so I will just run
out and catch them at it. Then won't I let you see their pretty little
arses well slapped; and it will make your cock stand--like a fine poker
as it is. I generally have a family slapping after dinner on Sundays,
it makes Peter so randy to see their little cunts and rosy red arses!
Then I do get a rare rogering I can tell you, but not so good as yours,
dear."

She soon fetched them in from the garden, all flushed and crying,
having dropped on them just as the two younger ones were fighting
Patty, and had boxed their ears all round. "Now, you little scratch
cats, just wipe you faces and see how I will tingle your naughty bums
before Mr. Percy, that will just make you nicely ashamed of yourselves."

Little Sue--the youngest, about ten--hid her face in her hands, she was
so shamefaced to see me; but Phoebe brusquely, as if in great temper,
first wiped their hands and faces with a wet towel, then noticing the
disorder of their little frocks, proceeded to divest them of
everything, till they stood reduced to their smocks, shoes, and
stockings.

"Did you ever see such dirty, bad behaved girls, such naughty little
things, Master Percy? Oh, I don't know how to keep my hands off them,
no slapping would half punish them enough," she said, dragging Sue
across her lap. "Look at the dirt all up to her knees and thighs, she
must have been crawling on the ground. Oh, you dirty young slut!"
Smack, smack, smack, on her plump little thighs: the child screaming:
"Oh mother! Mother don't Oh, don't, I will be better! Oh! I will!" as
Phoebe still more exposed the quivering bum to my gaze, slapping Sue's
bottom without mercy. It was indeed a sight to excite any one, as I
could see everything, the crack of her bottom, and just inside that the
little hairless slit opening a wee bit every time she writhed and
twisted under that painful slapping.

Almost throwing the child from her, Phoebe, seeming in a terrible
temper, proceeded to serve Minnie, the next one, in the same manner,
whilst I took Sue on my knee to soothe her and kiss the tears from her
eyes, passing my hands under her smock to feel the beautifully firm
flesh all over her palpitating and still quivering body. But although
fondling the little chit, and taking every possible liberty fingers
could indulge in, my eyes followed every slap that the mother almost
savagely laid on to Minnie's pretty bottom. Lovely sight to watch the
tearful, screaming girl, with her nut-brown face, which made a lovely
contrast to the whiteness of her skin below and the rosy red look of
the well-spanked bum. "There, there, there," she said, out of breath,
as the last three hard slaps were laid on to her screaming victim. "Now
go to Mr. Percy to comfort your smarting arse, if he can."

"Poor little darling, Minnie, come to me, dear, and let Percy kiss your
tears away. Never mind if I have seen your naughty bum, you won't fight
Patty any more, will you?"

Her crimsoned, dark face, gave me a peculiar pleasure as I looked at
it, so drawing her close to my lips, I kissed her cheeks and sucked her
mouth till the little thing quivered with emotions she had never felt
before, which increased more and more as I placed one of her little
hands inside my trousers, making her feel my awfully stiff member.

"Oh, what is that, Mr. Percy?" she lisped. "Will it hurt me?"

"No, my pet; pass your hand over it, backwards and forwards; it is so
nice for me. Don't be afraid. Don't you like me to tickle you as well?"

"Yes, yes," she said in a whisper, a still deeper blush coming over the
brown face: "I do, it makes me feel hot all over and forget the smart
of my bottom," returning kiss for kiss with girl-like ardour, "and it
makes me love you so, Oh! I do love you, Percy, dear."

"What's that you have got, Min?" said Sue. "See the rosy red head as
the skin rubs back. Let me feel it, do."

"Yes, do, Sue. Kiss it and play with it. Your soft, little hands will
just do the trick for me."

Almost directly the spend came in a flood of spouting jets, right over
Sue's face and both their hands, whilst the sight of it seemed to drive
their mother wild, as struggling with the big Patty, to get at the
girl's backside, she tore her smock off her, and, getting hold of a
thin cane, began to cut poor girl's bottom without mercy, each cut
raising a fiery-looking mark, which soon puffed up into a regular weal.
Her victim screamed fearfully, but it did not effect her mother, who
seemed carried away by her lustful fury, and the cottage being quite
isolated, no one was at all likely to hear anything. At length she laid
Patty on a bed which was in a recess screened by curtains, which she
drew aside, and as the poor girl lay on her face, sobbing as if her
heart would break, Phoebe called me to inspect the effects of her
handiwork.

The bottom still quivered, and the weals were beginning to turn a
darker red colour, and would probably be blue when a day old.

"Look! Look! Mr. Percy," said she, "haven't I just punished well. I
guess Mr. Jones would about like that sight and to put his fingers in
the crack as she lays there."

"Ah!" I replied, "poor thing. Let me kiss it for her. My tongue is far
better than any parson's finger, and will soon make her forget all the
pain."

"Kneel up, quick Patty, across the bed, with your knees on the edge, so
Mr. Percy can kiss where I have hurt you. Now be sharp about it, or you
will get the cane again."

She was too frightened not to do so at once. Besides she knew I was
kind to the others, and her delicate, wealed bum was a thing to pity,
but full of delight for me. My tool was again standing furiously, and I
had thrown off both jacket and vest. There was just the slightest
suspicion of down growing on the unfledged cunny, which was quivering
and glistening on the pretty rose-like, pinky opening, as if the little
bitch had actually had a slight emission. Mad with lust, I glued my
lips first to that delicious-looking little pussy and sucked for all I
was worth, whilst Phoebe, kneeling down, had my prick in her warm
mouth, which I fucked in and out of as her tongue did its duty by
rolling round its head. Patty squirmed in ecstasy. Phoebe sucked, and I
spent a flood of love juice down her throat, whilst the two little
ones, not to be out of the game, had pulled down my trousers and lifted
my shirt behind, so as to pat and kiss my bottom, one on each side,
making indeed a voluptuous experience for me.

"When a little recovered from the excitement of the foregoing tableaux,
Phoebe made each of the girls take the head of my member in their
mouths and suck it a little, whilst their hands fondled the bag of
precious stones below, and when I was sufficiently worked up for
another bout, she sat on the edge of the bed, standing Patty quite
naked on a footstool between her knees, with her buttocks presented to
me, said:

"Now, sir, I know you won't be satisfied till you have her, so put your
randy affair in behind, along the parting of her bottom, and fuck as if
you were really in her little cunt. Nip your thighs well together,
Patty; it won't hurt you, and be as nice as you can about it, then you
will feel and enjoy the pleasure."

Following her directions, I pushed along the crack straight under her
bum, and felt Phoebe's hand grasp the head of my member each time it
was pushed home; Patty, by her mother's directions, working her bottom
to meet each thrust, and add to the illusion. My emission all went into
the palm of Phoebe's hand, she rubbing it all up under the girl's
little cunt. This was the end of that day's fun, and Phoebe assured me
we might go a little further another time, and that there was no fear
of the girls telling tales, as they were too much afraid of what their
little arses would suffer if they did.

Nothing of moment happened for a short time after this, till going one
day unexpectedly to stables, I heard Patty's voice talking to her
brother, who was our groom. The window was open and one corner being
shaded by the foliage of a Virginia creeper, I could both have a good
peep and hear everything.

"Well, you do look after your brother, Pat: only I wish you had brought
something stronger than the housekeeper's mild ale," he was saying.

"She says beer, this hot weather, is bad for everybody, especially
young people, it makes their blood hot, so they get into mischief. What
does she mean, George?"

"Well, girls are something like Master Percy's little mare there: do
you see how she is twitching her tail--it isn't the flies, there's none
in the stable--and I expect you feel something like that, don't you,
Pat, now and then?"

She blushed up to her eyes, but said, innocently enough: "Tell me what
you mean, George, why does she frisk her tail so?"

"She wants the horse, and I expect you do, too, this warm weather."

"Oh, you wretch, to talk like that as if girls ever think such things.
It's all because you young fellows are always trying to ruin us girls."

"Yes Pat, and if you were not my sister you would never get out of this
stable all right, I'd horse you to your heart's delight."

"Don't be so rude, George, you make me feel quite all-overish like.
There, don't kiss and squeeze me so: for shame, to do that to your own
sister!" as he clasped her round the body, pressing her to his bosom,
and smothered her face with kisses, as his hands were feeling the
girl's plump, firm buttocks.

She did not struggle much, but it made her heave one of those
deep-drawn sighs, which too plainly told it was all over with her.

"Oh, George, don't, if you were some other nice young man as
good-looking as yourself I would not answer for what might happen just
now, you made me have such a funny feeling."

"Between your legs, wasn't it, Pat? you're just like Master Percy's
little mare, see how excited she gets when I touch her!" Keeping his
arm round her waist, he drew the trembling girl close up to the hind
quarters of the mare, then releasing his arm, he stroked the beautiful
creature's rump with his hand, till the mare's tail whisked more than
ever. Presently he put his fingers right into the mare's cunt, and
worked them by thrusting in and frigging the twitching lips of that
hyper-sensitive organ to the evident delight of the beast, to judge
from the way she stood to allow it: at first his fingers simply
glistened with the moisture of the aperture, which could be seen
contracting and twitching spasmodically as his fingers increased the
animal's excitement, till a gush of horsey lubricity sent quite a flood
of thick creamy looking stuff all over his hands, the mare giving quite
a low whinney from excess of pleasure.

"Poor thing, she wanted it. Don't you think so, Pat?" he said, wiping
his hands on a handkerchief.

This scene appeared to drive all sense of modesty out of Patty's mind,
for with a laugh on her flushed face she replied: "Not more than you
do, George, my boy, to look at something swelling inside your breeches.
I believe you have often horsed that mare yourself."

"Maybe I have, she makes me so randy swishing her tail about and
stinging my face as I rub her down."

"How I should have liked to see that, and shall just find a peep-hole
to watch how you go on. It will be rare fun if you don't know."

"How about yourself, Pat? If you could peep at that, you may as well
look at this now; what do you think of your brother's cock, my dear?"
as he let out to full view a fine standing tool of nearly eight inches
long and thick in proportion, with the foreskin well turned back behind
the fiery, ruby-coloured head.

It was plain to see there was incest in the air, she was all of a
tremble, yet did not withdraw her hand when he made her touch his
rampant tool, which seemed to strangely fascinate her.

"Although we are brother and sister, why shouldn't I have you as well
as any other fellow! How can I help loving you the same as any one
else? Men and women are the only animals who think it wrong; they were
never told not to marry their mother or their sister; that little mare
there would only be too pleased if she could just have father or
brother to satisfy her warm feelings. There's no harm in it, Pat; only
parsons make out everything is so wicked, even fucking, the greatest
pleasure God ever gave us. Never mind them. Come on my girl, I must
have it, I'm just wild for a put in!" at the same time gradually
pushing her towards a long, broad, padded stool which stood in one
corner, and was his usual seat when polishing the bits or harness, &c.

"What a shame? Do spare me, George, you know I can't help myself, you
are so strong," as she sank on the stool and he pushed her backwards
full length on it, his hands rapidly raising her skirts till I could
see the thighs I knew so well, exposed nearly up to her nest, which was
still hidden by the rucked-up drawers. Somehow she still kept her hand
clasped on his member, and as he ruthlessly stretched her legs apart,
getting between them, pushing aside the chemise which hid the object of
his lust, she ingenuously managed to direct his dart to the spot,
murmuring: "Pray don't be rough, don't hurt me, George love, and you
shall have your will of me."

He was certainly pushing for all he was worth, but clever girl as she
was didn't want him to think he was not the first to take advantage of
her virginity so her hand still retaining its grasp of his instrument,
she squirmed and sighed: "Oh, oh, oh, its breaking! Stop you'll kill
me, George!" then artfully letting him go, "Ar-r-r-re! Oh, you've
forced it!" as he drove in till his hair rubbed against hers. She
heaved her buttocks in ecstasy to meet his thrilling pushes, and in the
midst of their excitement I slipped through the door and was close
behind them, delightedly watching George's prick as it plunged in and
out of Miss Patty's foaming little cunt just as they both seemed to
spend together.

Guess their surprise and fright as I gave George a rousing slap on his
arse. "You didn't know I was watching your game, my dears; what fun you
were having, but where do I come in?"

George was out and too confused to put away his tool, which was now
shrinking to its normal state, slightly hanging in a sort of
semi-stiffness all dripping with spend whilst Patty still lay with her
legs wide apart, showing her charms, with the roselike lips of her
cunny all red and quivering from the recent excitement, whilst two or
three thick drops of pearly spend were slowly dripping down towards the
parting of her beautiful thighs.

"I've an idea how I can join in with you, she's not had half enough
yet. George take her place on the stool and lay on your back, I want to
see Patty ride on that fine prick of yours, and will tickle your balls
and her cunt as I watch the game from behind. Now, my girl, mount upon
him and open your legs well, the very idea has made him ready again."

"Oh, Mr. Percy, to think you should catch us doing such a wicked thing;
we will do just what you order if you never tell. It was all George's
fault. He would have me, indeed it was," she sobbed, two or three great
big tears rolling down her flushed and shamed face.

"Don't tell fibs, Miss Patty, I saw it all from the beginning, and
shall now punish you for forwardness and pert little saying, which only
made him worse than he would have been. You know what he said was quite
true, you are as bad as the animal there, which knows no better, whilst
you could have run away and saved yourself if you had wished."

Whilst saying this to her, my hand had been holding George's throbbing
tool as it stiffened up more and more every instant, then placing its
head well within her grotto, lubricated as it was by her previous
fucking bout, she settled herself down on John Thomas till he was all
taken in, and with a deep-drawn sigh of pleasure, she threw herself
forward to kiss him with all her ardour, thus exposing to my view a
splendid sight of her bottom, pussy holding prick up as tightly as she
could nip it, and all else.

"Gee-up--gee-up, little mare, laying still will never do, I'll make
your arse ride him properly," as snatching up a band off a truss of
straw which lay handy, I rope'sended her buttocks to perfection. She
screamed, but George was enjoying it and clasped his arms tightly round
her waist. The straw was so knotted and scratchy, it was no child's
play for our victim. "Oh, oh, oh, for God's sake leave off, Mr. Percy,"
she whimpered, but it only made me go on worse, making me feel so
awfully randy, my member was like a bar of iron inside my trousers.

They were both spending again, but I kept them on the go, the hard,
knotted rope of straw paid into both of them without mercy till I
thought I had done enough.

"That's for committing incest with your brother, you randy little mare.
How did you like it? That straw rope was just the thing; now I will
look at the damage. Oh! I have rather scratched the skin a bit, and
there's lovely little drops of blood here and there, and so red all
over; but my eye! how your cunt grips his prick, which is as hard as
ever. Go on, Patty, fuck it out of him, there's nothing like riding St.
George to pump up the spunk," I said, as my fingers pushed up inside
her vagina alongside his tool, then as she winced a little, I rubbed
some of the mixed spendings into the orifice of her wrinkled,
tight-looking arse-hole, which, to judge by the way it spurred her on,
increased the pleasure very perceptibly. My fingers, first one and then
two, working into the nether aperture, enabled me to readily feel
George's prick inside her cunt. This so inflamed my own passions, that
unable to longer restrain myself, I brought the tip of my own member to
the spot, and substituting it for the fingers, as my other hand
lubricated the head with saliva, it went in about an inch, then
clasping her firmly by the buttocks, I rammed in with all my strength.
This sudden and unexpected attack, made her struggle to get away. "Oh,
George, George, do let go, he's shoving his cock up my arse. I can't
stand that! I must----."

"Hold tight George, never mind her, I've got her fine, it's awfully
nice, and if you always have her this way, no harm can be done."

Just at that moment I shot a flood of spend right up her vitals, but my
priapism was so intense the stiffness never relaxed, and both of us,
George and self, revelled in all the lubricity of our young natures,
whilst Patty went nearly mad, as she squirmed, squealed, and bit him in
the excess of her emotions, being carried quite out of herself. This
went on till we all three ejaculated and mixed the very essence of our
natures, which left us to lay in an exhausted heap, one top of the
other on the stool.

We all had a wash in a stable bucket of fresh water, and it amused me
to see George use the big stable sponge to lave and cool Patty's
excited parts. She was in a nervously lost kind of state, sobbing and
whimpering: "Oh! oh! oh! You have quite done for me--my poor, poor
bottom is so hot and so stretched--I shall never be right again. Oh!
oh! oh! Kiss me, Mr. Percy. Kiss me, George. It was awfully grand--if
I'm none the worse for it," as she felt herself getting better.

At length we thought she was well enough, so let her leave, taking a
final embrace as she felt and squeezed our tools, saying: "You are two
devils to serve a poor girl like that, I will never come near the
stable again."

"Yes you will, Patty, next Sunday soon after breakfast, whilst most of
them are gone to Church, and if I don't find you both here you will be
served out for it."

This last experience of two males with a female quite tickled my fancy,
so much so, that I resolved to ask Aunt Gert if she had ever had such a
spree, and happening upon her in the garden a few hours later, I asked
her to sit down and talk to me.

"Why of course I will, Perce, as you are such a nice boy, and take so
little notice of your Auntie lately; Mamma and Mary seem to have the
monopoly of your darling cockie, but you do thrive on it, my dear. Let
me kiss you for once now I have the chance," throwing her arms round my
neck and thrusting her tongue into my mouth as our lips met. We were
near a handy bowery alcove at the end of a walk, in the most retired
part of the garden, so that we could easily hear anyone approaching,
and it was so closed in all round by a thick thorn fence, with a wall
behind, that no one could creep close enough to spy upon persons there.

Drawing me upon her lap, one hand found its way inside my pants and
brought forth M. Pego, who stood at attention the moment his services
seemed likely to be required.

"Look, Perce, how imprudent he is to stand like that in my face, what a
darling prick! Oh, you dear boy, you must be bursting for it and I
didn't know. Have they neglected you, or is your Mamma afraid of doing
too much?"

"Yes, Gertie, you love, they won't give me a chance, the key is turned
in the lock every night so I can't enter her room except when she
thinks proper. Let me have it quick!" as to keep up the deception I
slipped off her lap, and trussing up her skirts, got between her lovely
thighs and had my fingers in that luscious, golden-haired quim of hers.
The touch was electric; she guided my rampant member into the haven of
bliss, and being both of us just mad for a fuck, a very few strokes
drew the juice of love in profusion, and she lay palpitating beneath me
on the seat, her glorious cunt nipping and squeezing my prick most
deliciously, as it retained its stiffness within her.

Another round followed, which we enjoyed more leisurely, and when I
withdrew my limp tool she took it in her mouth, sucking it clean, then
permitting me to do the same for her, said with a laugh: "That saves
soiling one's handkerchief, besides it is so nice to know we love one
another like that. You dear Perce, no more now, or you will feel too
exhausted; what shall we talk about?"

"Auntie, it is a funny thing, but last night I had a dream and saw you
and Thompson, the groom (George), meet a gentleman on horseback: such a
handsome fellow--and you all went into a wood, tied up the three
horses, and laid on the grass; you kissed the gentleman, and taking out
his cock, said what a splendid affair it was, calling Thompson's
attention to it; but the gentleman, who you called Charlie, laughingly
declared he was sure Thompson had a grander one, whispering something
in your ear, at which you blushed crimson, but exclaimed: 'I'll bet
you, and pay forfeit if I lose.'"

"Done, but what shall be the stakes, if Thompson's is not the biggest,
I will submit to a dozen good strokes from a birch switch cut from
those bushes over there; but if I win you will have to take the dozen
strokes on your own pretty bum. Is that agreed?"

Thompson was blushing to the roots of his hair: "Oh, don't make me the
subject of the bet; you shan't look at mine."

"Oh, won't we, my boy?" Charlie said, suddenly seizing the groom by the
leg, and bringing him down on the grass: "Now, help me, Gertie, we will
soon look for ourselves."

Thompson did not resist very desperately, so as Charlie kept him down,
my aunt Gertie's nimble fingers soon unfastened the fly of his trousers
and fished out his tool, which was in a spending state, having emitted
its thick creamy sperm all over his belly.

"Oh, my, Charlie, but it is a grand one though, and you win. Oh, how
funny handling such a fine stiff affair makes me feel; I quiver all
over."

"Ride on it then, you little bitch, and see if my switch does not make
you dance well on it; you shall bound up and down till you have sucked
every drop out of him."

The groom was passive in your hands, laying quiet enough, as Charlie
made you straddle over him, and settle yourself down on his big
upstanding prick, till it was all out of sight in your cunt. "Now ride
him well, Gertie, or you will be made to move yourself," and he stepped
away to cut his switch, a couple of minutes only sufficing him to make
a handy tickler of long thin sprigs of birch.

You had been slowly riding up and down, evidently enjoying the slow
motions as you rose and fell on the groom's splendid poker; your skirts
were well tucked up over your hips so I could see the seething sperm
oozing out at every down stroke you gave. Then Charlie came back and
began lightly tickling your buttocks with his birch twigs, presently
giving one or two smart little cuts which made you wince. "Now,
Thompson hold tight round her waist, and buck up well to her, never
mind how she squeaks, it will make a fine game for you; see if you
don't enjoy it. You never had such a fuck before in your life, I'll
bet."

His twigs now cut finely into your bum at each stroke, making long red
marks, and a deep rosy tint all over each cheek of your buttocks; Oh,
it was a sight, as Charlie went on faster and harder, you winced,
sighed: "Oh, oh, oh, don't be cruel," and cried till the tears streamed
down your face, but at length the spasm of pleasure seemed to make you
oblivious to every other sensation as the groom appeared to meet you
with a flood of his love juice, and you lay exhausted on the top of
him, but only for a few moments, as Charlie was so madly randy he
turned you over off the groom, and was into you himself, quicker than I
can tell, whilst Thompson, quite pumped out, sat up and enjoyed the
scene--just as I awoke to find it all a dream, and my own cock pumping
up the semen all over my night shirt.

"How curious I should dream that, Auntie, don't you think so; did you
ever have two cocks to play with at once like that? It must be a
delicious idea."

"I believe Thompson has a grand prick," I continued. "You must have
noticed the fine bunch he shows in his trousers."

"I've noticed it, but Perce, how your brain must be full of such things
to dream that," she replied, fencing my question.

"Yes, and I fancy you must have had a taster of it some time or other,
as I know you always take your enema for a ride with you."

This rather startled her, her face crimsoning all over. "Oh, you wicked
boy; you have fucked little Patty, she only could have told you that."

"Well, Auntie, confidence for confidence is only fair; we are to have a
fine spree with George, who you know is her brother, in the stable on
Sunday morning, when all the others are gone to Church. Would you like
to be in it? but don't let Pat know, it will be a fine surprise when
she sees you with me; and how would you like two pricks in you at
once--back and front?--it would be awfully grand, don't you think, my
darling Auntie?"

"What a boy you are, Perce, to go on like that, why you must think I am
well up in every kind of lubricity; it has never been my experience,
much as I should like to see it. No doubt you and George have served
poor Pat in that way. At any rate, whatever she has learnt from you
lately, I have noticed how sprightly she looks--girls are always like
that when they have once tasted the forbidden fruit. Did you take her
maidenhead?"

"Yes, and Mary's too. Haven't I been lucky, Auntie, and how I should
have liked to have been the first into you. Oh, it must have been a
treat to the fellow who had it. Do you know it makes me feel an old
hand at the game now? I don't mean to lose any chances, and will fuck
every girl I come across, if I can only get over her."

"You are worse and worse every day, and how sly you have been. Anyhow I
did get you first, and it was me who opened your eyes; to think of it
makes me spend, does it affect my boy like that?" she asked, noticing
the rampant state I was in. "Well just another, as we can't help
ourselves."

This was a rare rock-off, the seat being just a convenient height; so
standing between her legs, I shoved into her lovely cunt, taking her
beautiful legs under my arms, and we could manage to kiss and suck each
other's mouths at the same time, which made a delicious combination.
"Don't hurry, make it last, my darling love of a boy."

Even gently fucking was too much for us, excited as we were. I could
feel my crisis coming on, so to prolong my own pleasure (for I knew she
could keep on spending and coming continually) I withdrew and, falling
on my knees, sucked and tongued that delicious cunt of hers, almost
devouring the clitoris, which I sucked as hard as I could, getting it
all between my lips and tongue, which rolled round it. Then to add to
her erotic agony, my fingers frigged the tight bum-hole as the sperm
from above trickled over it.

"Ah, oh, you darling love! I shall die if you work me up like that. Oh,
shove your love of a prick up where your fingers are, it will be
splendid just now."

Stiffer than ever, I plunged in, but not too fast. However, the
insertion was speedily effected, and the contractions of that
tightfitting anus delighted me beyond expression, so that, impossible
to restrain myself, the boiling spunk shot right up to her bowels, as
she screamed in the acme of her delight: "Oh, oh, ah-r-r-re! How
divine! Lovely isn't the word to describe such rapturous sensations.
Don't withdraw, you dear, your prick is stiffer than ever, as I feel it
throbbing and swelling inside me. Go on, go on, for all you are worth,
it is so well oiled you can't hurt or stretch me too much;" and I found
she had one of her hands frigging herself in front doing everything
possible to increase our delirium. On we went, till I again pumped my
very life up to her vitals, and lay over her quite exhausted whilst my
champion seemed to swell still more inside its burning hot sheath, and
when at length I withdrew, is was with quite an audible plop I like a
tight cork being drawn.

We parted with mutual caresses, and she promised to join our Sunday
party.

Meanwhile George and I added sundry things to make our meeting more
comfortable, especially in the way of wine and biscuits, &c.

My plan was for my auntie Gert to surprise us in the midst of a
salacious scene, so was early at the stable, and George communicated
the fact that the little mare was just come on, and we agreed to turn
her into the stallion's stall to excite Patty, who arrived a few
minutes after me--all blushes, especially when I joked her about
looking so well, and that the last double spree had evidently done her
a world of good to judge by the way her eyes sparkled.

"Oh, don't chaff me like that. Mr. Percy, it makes me fancy I can feel
it even now, you almost split my poor bottom."

"Nonsense, you mean you would just like to feel it again, Pat. Now,
haven't you dreamt about it every night?"

This made her blush more than ever, and I could see it was a good guess.

Jerry, the stallion pony, appeared in a very excited state.

Said George: "He's always like that when he can sniff Jenny. Shall I
turn her in with him?"

"Yes, do George," said Pat: "it must be funny to see how they do it."

"Well, it's only fair," I replied, "the pony saw our spree the other
day, so let her in, my boy, to please Pat and make her want a bit
herself."

The little stallion greeted his mate with a very wild whinney, and his
thick, black, india-rubber looking affair shot out in excitement as he
wanted to mount her in an instant. I kept my eyes on Pat, whose
blushing face only too plainly indicated how the scene affected her.

George held the mare's head, as Jerry mounted on her rump, but the
stallion's penis quite failed to find the exact place of entrance,
pushing and pushing without avail. "You must help him," said George, or
he'll never get in.

"Come on, Pat," I cried, "you take hold of it and point it right for
him, I'll help you, pushing her forward, it's nothing to mind doing."
Her trembling fingers grasped the shiny black looking tool, and pointed
it to the vulva of the little mare, who stood with her hind legs
planted firmly apart, without whisking her tail; my fingers opened the
slit a little, the stallion snorted, and with one plunge got in the
full length of his affair, seeming to shoot his sperm at the same
moment; in fact, Patty declared she quite felt the spasm shoot through
the thing, which swelled and stiffened as it throbbed, the mixed
emissions of the animal squirting all down the mare's thighs, as the
stallion repeated his strokes; but it was quickly over, he withdrew at
once and his tool hung down dripping and slimy, whilst we could see the
mare's cunt opening a little and quivering from the recent excitement;
both seemed satisfied, and Jenny was put back into her box at once,
Patty remarking:

"What a silly business, it is so soon over, I should want it again and
again: it's made me so randy for a fuck. Do have me, some one at once."
She had pulled up her skirts and was straddling over one end of the
stool, frigging herself, so to oblige Patty, I quickly pushed her
backwards, and got into her longing slit. The grind did not last long,
both being so hot for it, so it came off in a very few strokes.

"Now," said I, drawing out, "that was only just to steady ourselves. We
don't wish to be like animals, but enjoy the game properly; these short
rapid fucks give very little pleasure or satisfaction, the sensations
are much too transient."

"Hey! this is the game, is it? I've been watching your goings on
through that hole," said Aunt Gert, bursting in upon us. "You thought
everyone had gone to church, did you? and you, Patty Thompson, behaving
like that, when I always considered you such a quiet, virtuous girl.
Oh, fie! no wonder men think all girls are alike," in her pretended
indignation. "Now, what am I to do? Pretty goings on for your Mamma to
know of, Percy. I shall take and give you a good sound thrashing, now I
am so thoroughly roused, and your wicked bottom shall smart, I can
promise you. After that, I will settle what is to be done with that
wretched brother and sister," as gripping my arm she tried to drag me
away with her.

"No, no, you don't, I'm not taking any, Aunt Gert, beside you might
hurt. Here you, George and Pat, just help me, and we'll serve her out
for spying on us--then, perhaps she won't be fast to tell tales."

Patty had been in an awful state of fright, but now helped George and
me so drag Gertie forward, shutting the stable door, which we securely
bolted.

"Ah, no, how dare you?" she screamed, well knowing no one could bear
the row. "Let me go: you shan't, you shan't, you little beast, Percy!"
as I tried to pull up her skirts: but we got her down on the straw, and
soon exposed all her private affairs in spite of struggles and kicks,
then turning her over on her face, they held her firmly, whilst I gave
her lovely plumb buttocks such a slapping that she screamed under it,
begging to be let go, promising to do anything and keep our secret.

"Well, then, let George fuck you, I want to look on, and frig Patty to
make her do all the ponies do."

Placing George on the stool, Patty made him lay on his back, then
opening his trousers, presented his lordly prick to our view. "Now,
Auntie, that's your penance, to ride a cock-horse on as fine an
instrument as you could wish for. Just straddle across him, and he will
hold your waist tight enough, so you can't fall off."

Although pretending to be so very indignant, she did not give me much
trouble to adjust her, not liking the savage pinches I gave her firm
bottom, until I had had the satisfaction of seeing George's splendid
affair right up her, till the hair on their parts mingled. "Now, move
yourself, Auntie," I called out, giving the beautiful bottom a
tremendous slap with my hand, just as she had drawn what I knew to be a
deep sigh of satisfaction at feeling that grand prick swelling and
filling her vagina to its utmost capacity. Her buttocks fairly jerked
up under the impact of my hand, and as she came down again on his
delighted pego, George clasped her round the waist so that she lay
along on him, and their lips would meet. My fingers busily tickled
alternately his balls, or played round the clinging lips of her quim,
as the spendings began to ooze out in profusion each time the prick
went home, enabling me to plentifully lubricate her little wrinkled
nether hole, which I contemplated presently to attack, only waiting
till their emotions should make her regardless of what I might be
about. George heaved up beneath her, to meet every grasp of her greedy
cunt, sinking down on him, as if it would eat such a delicious morsel,
the uttermost bit of which it seemed eager to swallow.

With lips glued together they swived and squealed in ecstasy. Patty was
beside herself at the sight of it, and seizing hold of my prick wanted
to suck it, which I did permit for a moment or two, for the sake of the
lubrication: then whispering the dear girl what I wanted, she pointed
its glistening head to Gertie's fundament, as I seized hold of my
aunt's hips and pushed gently. Then, as the head got in, I felt the
voluptuous contractions of the small aperture. I was mad to get in and
feel my prick rubbing against that of George, with only a thin membrane
between them. Only those who have experienced this double enjoyment can
realize the delicate and intoxicating sensations of such a moment.

"My God! Oh, Perce! You kill me with pleasure--this beats anything I
ever imagined. Oh, heavens, my very life will be drawn out of me: you
make me spend so, it thrills all up my spine to my brain. Ah, oh, I'm
done!" as she collapsed into a state of momentary obliviousness.

Patty had been sitting on a sack of chaff, as she handled my balls or
postillioned me behind and covered my bottom with hottest kisses.
Seeing the climax was over with Gertie she pulled me away, saying. "Put
it into me quick, it must be lovely like that, all slimy and so awfully
stiff. You don't know how I do want my turn, you dear." Excited as I
was, another cunt to finish in was just the thing for me, so I rolled
on top of the amourous girl, and in no time was ranging up and down her
luscious affair, to the great gratification of such a salacious nature.
The stiffness was almost painfully nice to me, and I lasted so well
that Patty was fairly fucked out, as well as my aunt, at the end of our
encounter.

When we came to ourselves, it was only to find Gertie kissing and
sucking George's member, which was again ready for action, so I placed
Patty's well-buttered affair over him for a ride, and by Gertie's help
soon was able to put in behind and complete the girl's happiness, which
I knew she was longing for.

After this we refreshed and adjusted ourselves, and thus finished
Sunday's matinee.

Now having my darling mother, Auntie Gert, Mary, and Patty at my
disposal in the house, the precocious lubricity of my nature had full
swing for a time, and to reiterate the scenes of lust I took part in
would be too tedious.

Patty alone of that female quartette was a scorcher who would capture
me at every possible safe opportunity, and her warm kisses on my lips
always had such a magnetic influence on me they effected immediately a
rise below.

However, wishing for a change from such a surfeit of poking,
gamahuching, &c, my thoughts turned to Phoebe and her little girls, so
calling at the cottage one fine afternoon, to my surprise the door was
opened by a beautiful girl of about fourteen, neatly dressed in a
bright cotton frock, just short enough to display the contour of her
finely shaped legs and ankles, with a mass of blue-black hair hanging
over her shoulders and down her back, so I should think she might have
sat on it. She was a vision of delight, and at a glance I recognised
she must be a sister to Phoebe.

"Oh, don't mind me. I see your were doing up your hair. You must be
Phoebe's sister--is she out?"

"Yes, sir," she replied, blushing deeply: "and are you Mr. Percy from
the hall, she and the girls so often speak about? They have all gone to
market, but will be back to tea."

"I am sorry, because I came on purpose to enquire how she was. You know
about a fortnight ago she did not seem at all right, so I have brought
her a bottle of wine. I must rest myself a bit; it has been a tiring
walk, and I always make myself at home here," as I walked in without
being invited.

She placed a chair for me, then saying she would just tie up her hair,
stepped into the back bedroom, leaving the door slightly ajar.

"Excuse me," I said, following her: "but may I wash my hands. You need
not mind me, go on with your hair, but it can't look better than it
does now."

Merely dipping my hands in the water she poured out for me, taking the
towel, I remarked. "Do just leave it as it is. I shall soon be gone,
but must have a kiss first," then dropping the towel. "Phoebe has
always kissed me ever since I can remember, so why shouldn't you, my
dear?" placing an arm round her waist.

"Oh, no, I can't. You never saw me before; I shall run into the garden
unless you behave yourself, Mr. Percy," trying to get away from me, but
I held her too fast. "Now don't be cross. Kissing is so nice, and you
must just give me one, just one, and I'll let you go," overcoming her
slight resistance and smothering that crimson face with kisses. "Now
do, or I shall go on kissing you, dear, it's more than I can help. You
are so nice."

"Well then, only a little one," she lisped, just touching my cheek with
her lips.

"Ah, no, that isn't a good one. Why I could kiss you all over, if you
had no clothes on," as one of my hands was slipped inside the bosom of
her dress, having slyly unfastened one or two hooks.

"No, no? You shan't, Mr. Percy. What should I do if Phoebe was to come
in?"

"But she will be two hours yet, you little goose; how can a kiss or a
touch hurt you?"

Her lips met mine, and I took a long, luscious kiss, almost sucking her
breath away, and my hand was in possession of one of the small firm
globes of her bosom, still more increasing her confusion, as I rubbed
and played with the rosy nipples and moved my hand from one to the
other little strawberry tips. This could not go on in a standing
posture, so I pushed her against the edge of the bed--kissing and
groping till she seemed quite oblivious of what was happening to her,
laying back on the coverlet in a dazed kind of state--and, devil that I
was, it took no time to part her beautiful legs, which I found
protected by prettily frilled drawers, which still hid the charms of
her person from my groping fingers. I wanted to look, but was afraid to
withdraw my kissing from her lips, for fear she might recover herself
and resist my encroachments below.

My ardent prick stood like a bar of ivory, impatient for a breach to be
opened for his advance to the assault of her tender virginity.
Nervously my fingers pulled at the impeding linen, till they found a
small opening and could touch the downy furniture of her mount, and
finding the entrance to Love's Palace of Pleasure, slowly parted the
velvety lips of her maiden slit. Then gently tickling the sensitive
clitty, that source of every girl's delight, made her sigh out: "Ah,
oh! how nice, Mr. Percy! don't hurt me, will you--there's a dear!" as
her bum squirmed under the novel sensations my touches had roused and
the warmth of her kisses now plainly gave her away.

Writing this, as I do after many years of varied experiences, I may
remark that mere verbal appeals to any girl's sensibility have very
little influence in inducing them to yield to salacious suggestions--it
is the warmth of contact and lascivious touches which undo them--a few
hot kisses, pressure on the bosom, and groping their love slit (even if
you have to use considerable force) which make them ready to consent.
Their blood gets fired in a moment, and resist as they may, they want
it and cannot help themselves; then once done, it is a very rare
exception if there is not some little feeling of love towards even a
ravisher; he must be a brute who provokes any feelings of aversion.

"Look here, darling, you make me love you so; I'll give you five golden
sovereigns I have in my purse, only let me kiss your naked body; it's
no harm, no one can see us, and so awfully jolly. Only think, all that
money for your own little self, to buy nice things with, and do as you
like."

"You undress me then, I'm too ashamed to do it, Percy," she said in a
low voice. "Oh! you do make me feel so funny all over!"

Giving her an extra luscious kiss, I attacked hooks, buttons, and
strings, till in a jiffy she had nothing but her stockings left to
adorn her figure, covering her face with her hands to hide her shame at
such exposure.

Giving her no time for reflection, but taking advantage of such a state
of abandon, my lips and tongue ranged all over her bosom and belly,
leaving the most secret casket of all for a last _bonne bouche_, and as
my tongue titillated her, beginning down at the abdomen and moving
slowly till it revelled under her hairless arm-pit. She fairly quivered
under the intensity of the feelings aroused: "Ah! Oh! Oh! How delicious
that was, it thrills me all over, Percy, do that again with your tongue
all the way up." Once more the electricity of my tongue sent vibrations
of a new and sensuous pleasure through every nerve and vein of her
body. She seemed beside herself, exclaiming: "Let me bite you, and kiss
you, my darling. Ah, you have all your clothes still on! I want to feel
your soft flesh as well as your touches, it would double the pleasure."

"Do you think so, my love? I'll soon be like you and let you do as you
wish with me, as long as I can press your lovely person in my arms,"
stripping myself as quickly as I could tear off the obstructing
apparel, then, naked as Adam, I knelt between her widely opened legs
and imprinted a kiss on the pinky lips of her tight looking little
cunny, as they just peeped out between the downy chevelure, forcing my
tongue in between them till it found that hypersensitive little button
of love. This so electrified her that she almost bounded off the bed;
again and again my tongue played around it, as she seemed dying with
delight, making her scream out: "Oh, you love? Oh, my darling! What is
it I feel thrilling me through and through. Ah, what is it? What is
going to happen? I feel something coming! Oh! oh! oh! I'm done!" as she
gave down a flood of maiden spend, thick and glutinous, all over my
lips, as I eagerly sucked every pearly drop.

Laying in a sort of dazed ecstasy, now was my chance, so standing up
and throwing my naked body over her, my affair was with its ruby head
touching the lips of her cunt.

We kissed each other ardently, as her arms clasped round my body. "Oh,
how lovely, to feel your flesh like this, you are all mine just now,
Percy; but what is that I feel trying to push into me down there?"

"Feel for yourself, dearest, it is the ladies' darling; they call it my
prick, or my cock, and love to have it go in there. Put your hand on
it, dear, and your happiness will soon be complete, if you just open
those little lips of yours and rub the head against the little spot my
tongue tickled so nicely: let me help you."

One of my hands directed hers, and placed it on my prick, the small
soft fingers grasped round it, giving me such a thrill that I gave a
hard push, jamming the head just a little within the entrance to her
virginity, "Oh, oh! You hurt me, Percy! Don't be so rough again."

"You pet; it's made to go in there, then you'll be a real woman, and
know what love is: bear it for a moment, I must have you now."

A natural instinct seemed to direct her motions, for just then giving a
deep sigh, she heaved up to meet, and I gained another inch, making her
give quite a little scream of pain. Push, push, push, I went on drawing
a sharp cry of agony at each advance. Presently something snapped and
gave way before my impetuous charge, the victory was won, but not
without some loss of blood, as I found when having shot a stream of my
healing balsam into her lacerated parts, I was able to withdraw for a
wash, whilst she lay in a dazed kind of lost state, till having
purified myself, I applied a wet handkerchief to wipe and soothe her
still, burning parts. "Oh, how nice of you to think of me like that,"
she said, opening her eyes, looking me all over. "And is that the thing
that has hurt me so?" as she pointed to my now limp John Thomas. "Why
it felt like a warm bar of iron forcing itself into me."

Leaning over her I kissed repeatedly her impudent looking titties, as
they stood up to invite my lips, and as I did so, felt one of her hands
steal down to the ravisher of her virginity.

"La, how soft it is now!" she whispered. "Will it get hard again soon?"

"Keep hold, and see, my darling: do you want it put in again?"

How my question made her blush, as she replied, "But not if I am to be
hurt as much the next time; still I fancy it must be nice when there is
no pain in getting in. Ah! how it's swelling in my hand. Perhaps if you
put it there before it is too big, I could bear it better, do just try,
Percy, my love."

"Point it there yourself, pet, and I will be as gentle as possible," I
said, getting between her legs, her hand retaining its hold on my fast
stiffening champion, which I slowly pressed forward as she directed it:
her face twitched as she evidently felt a trifle sore, but her own
lubricity so oiled the tight passage, I was soon in to the roots of my
hair, which rubbed against her downy little door mat.

"There, it's all in again; did I hurt you much?" as she squirmed her
body closer to me, pressing me tightly in her arms.

"Only a wee bit, Percy, dear; you were so gentle with me; the first
time you seemed to rush at me so furiously, but just now it slipped in
nicely, and I feel it there swelling bigger and bigger every moment; my
poor little thing is quite stretched to hold it, you actually seem part
of myself."

"Yes, darling, and now there is no pain, you will presently feel as if
my very soul was flowing into you," I replied, beginning the gentle in
and out motion, slowly withdrawing, then again penetrating to the
uttermost extent of her capacity. "That is lovely! Ah, Percy, my dear,
you make me feel delights I never had an idea of before this. Oh, oh,
it's coming again! I'm flowing. Push, push, I want every bit of it. Oh,
faster!" as she plunged about and bucked up at every stroke.

"Darling, I'm coming too. There, there, how do you like my spunk
shooting up into you?"

"Oh, my pet, my love, it drives me wild! No other pleasure can be like
it!" kissing my lips, face, and neck in her ecstasy, till her teeth
gave me a sharp love bite.

We lay swimming in love juice, my prick swelling and throbbing inside
her deliciously tight sheath, which treated it to such contractions and
lascivious nippings I thought I should never be able to withdraw, as
her cunt held on to my prick as if would never lose hold of such a
treasure.

However, the sweetest of fucks must have an end, so at length I
persuaded her to get up and dress, for fear Phoebe and the girls might
come home a little too soon.

"And when shall we see each other again, pet?" I said, kissing her
flushed face, "as I must go home now."

"I'm only here till to-morrow morning. If you had but come three or
four days ago; now I must go back to my place to-morrow. I'm only a
nursemaid you know, in London, and may not have a chance to see you for
ever so long: and to think how I love you now!" she said, kissing me
with tears in her eyes.

"And I don't even know your name, darling, yet. What is it?" repaying
kiss for kiss.

"It's Kitty Sawyer; and won't you write to me Percy, at Mrs. Blanks,
The Chestnuts, Westbourne Grove, London? Write it down, there's a dear."

"Kitty, of course, I will, and what's more whenever I'm in London will
be sure to meet you. You promise to get out, won't you?"

"Yes, I'd see you, Percy, if I had to lose my place for it. What a pity
I can't be at the Hall, but there's no baby there."

Thus we parted with mutual endearments, as I thought it best to defer
seeing Phoebe and her girls until another day, and will continue that
part of my romance in another volume to be written very shortly.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Forbidden Fruit, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FORBIDDEN FRUIT ***

***** This file should be named 28520.txt or 28520.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/8/5/2/28520/

Produced by Daniel Fromont

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
